%
CLINTON	D
DODD	D
EDWARDS	D
BIDEN	D
RICHARDSON	D
KUCINICH	D
OBAMA	D
%
CLINTON: Well, Campbell, I am happy to be here tonight. And this pantsuit is asbestos tonight. (Laughter.) So, I -- I am aware that some people say that, but I think that the American people know where I've stood for 35 years. I've been fighting for issues affecting women and children, workers and families. I've been fighting for universal health care. And I know that people are looking at this campaign and evaluating us, and I've put forth very specific policies about what I will do as president, because this has to be a big election. This is going to be one of the most important elections we've ever had in our country's history, and it is important that we have a candidate who is tested and a president who is ready to lead from day one. And I'm perfectly comfortable leaving these assessments up to the American people to make their judgments among us.
OBAMA: Well, first of all, I'm really happy to be here in Nevada and I appreciate this opportunity.
OBAMA: Senator Clinton, I think, is a capable politician, and I think that she has run a terrific campaign. But what the American people are looking for right now is straight answers to tough questions. And that is not what we've seen out of Senator Clinton on a host of issues, on the issue of driver's licenses for illegal immigrants.
OBAMA: We saw in the last debate that it took not just that debate but two more weeks before we could get a clear answer in terms of where her position was. The same is true on Social Security. We have serious disagreements about how we're going to make sure that Social Security is there for the people who need it.
OBAMA: And what I'm absolutely convinced of is that right now, we need a different kind of politics. Everywhere I go, all throughout Nevada, people are struggling with health care. People are working harder for less. They are having a tougher time saving, tougher time retiring. And part of the reason is because they don't feel that Washington is listening to them.
OBAMA: And what I want to do in this campaign is make certain that we are breaking out of the gridlock and partisanship and the standard practices of Washington and actually start listening to the American people to get things done.
CLINTON: Well, I hear what Senator Obama is saying, and he talks a lot about stepping up and taking responsibility and taking strong positions. But when it came time to step up and decide whether or not he would support universal health care coverage, he chose not to do that. His plan would leave 15 million Americans out. That's about the population of Nevada, Iowa, South Carolina and New Hampshire.
CLINTON: I have a universal health care plan that covers everyone. I've been fighting this battle against the special interest for more than 15 years, and I am proud to fight this battle. You know, we can have a different politic, but let's not forget here that the people who we're against are not going to be giving up without a fight. The Republicans are not going to vacate the White House voluntarily. We have some big issues ahead of us, and we need someone who is tested and ready to lead. I think that's what my candidacy offers. (Cheers, applause.)
OBAMA: SEN. OBAMA: Well, let's talk about health care right now because the fact of the matter is that I do provide universal health care. The only difference between Senator Clinton's health care plan and mine is that she thinks the problem for people without health care is that nobody has mandated -- forced -- them to get health care. That's not what I'm seeing around Nevada. What I see are people who would love to have health care. They -- they desperately want it. But the problem is they can't afford it, which is why we have put forward legislation -- (cheers, applause) -- we've put forward a plan that makes sure that it is affordable to get health care that is as good as the health care that I have as a member of Congress. (Applause.)
OBAMA: That's what the American people are looking for. That's what they deserve. And that's why I intend to provide as president of the United States.
CLINTON: Wolf, I -- Wolf, I cannot let that go unanswered.
CLINTON: You know, the most important thing here is to level with the American people. Senator Obama's health care plan does not cover everyone. He starts with children, which is admirable -- I helped to create the Children's Health Insurance Program back in 1997. I'm totally committed -- (applause) --
OBAMA: That's not true, Wolf.
CLINTON: -- to making sure every single child is covered. He does not mandate the kind of coverage that I do. And I provide a health care tax credit under my American Health Choices Plan so that every American will be able to afford the health care. I open up the congressional plan. But there is a big difference between Senator Obama and me. He starts from the premise of not reaching universal health care.
OBAMA: Wolf --
OBAMA: (Cross talk.)
OBAMA: No, I understand, but look, I'm not going to --
OBAMA: I will be very brief on this issue. Hillary states --
OBAMA: AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Off mike.)
OBAMA: -- states that she wants -- she states that she wants to mandate health care coverage, but she's not garnishing people's wages to make sure that they have it.
OBAMA: She's not --
OBAMA: AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Off mike.)
OBAMA: She is -- she is --
OBAMA: AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Off mike.)
OBAMA: She is not -- she is not enforcing this mandate.
OBAMA: And I don't think that the problem with the American people is that they are not being forced to get health care.
OBAMA: The problem is, they can't afford it. And that is why my plan provides the mechanism to make sure that they can. (Applause.)
EDWARDS: Well, can I say first, nobody on this stage is perfect, and that certainly includes me. (Cross talk.) And I don't claim perfection, far from it.
EDWARDS: What I would say is that the issue is whether we can have a president that can restore trust for the American people in the president of the United States. (Applause.) Because I think this president has destroyed that trust, and I think there are fair questions to be asked of all of us, including Senator Clinton.
EDWARDS: Senator Clinton says she will end the war. She also says she will continue to keep combat troops in Iraq and continue combat missions in Iraq. She says she will turn up the heat on George Bush and the Republicans. But when the crucial vote came on stopping Bush, Cheney and the neocons on Iran, she voted with Bush and Cheney. (Applause.)
EDWARDS: On the issue of Social Security, she said, standing beside me on the stage, that she would not do anything about the cap on Social Security taxes. And she has said privately to people, because it's been reported in the press, that, in fact, she would consider raising that cap. And the most important issue is, she says she will bring change to Washington while she continues to defend a system that does not work, that is broken, that is rigged and is corrupt, corrupted against the interest of most Americans and corrupted -- (cheers, applause).
EDWARDS: Let me -- and corrupted for a very small, very powerful, very well-financed --
EDWARDS: So we have fundamental differences.
CLINTON: Well, Wolf, I've just been personally attacked again.
CLINTON: And I -- thank you. Yes.
CLINTON: Well, you know, I respect all of my colleagues on this stage -- (laughter) -- and, you know, we're Democrats and we're trying to nominate the very best person we can to win. And I don't mind taking hits on my record, on issues, but when somebody starts throwing mud, at least we can hope that it's both accurate and not right out of the Republican playbook because what I -- (cheers, applause) -- what I believe is important is that we put forth what we stand for. I have been active for 35 years. The American people know where I stand.
CLINTON: You know, Senator Edwards raised health care again. When Senator Edwards ran in 2004, he wasn't for universal health care. I'm glad he is now. But for him to be throwing this mud and making these charges, I think, really detracts from what we're trying to do here tonight. We need to put forth a positive agenda for America -- (cheers, applause) --
CLINTON: -- telling people what we're going to do when we get the chance to go back to the White House.
BIDEN: Oh, no, no, no, no, no. (Laughter.)
BIDEN: Don't do it. No. Don't make me speak.
BIDEN: Hey, look, let's get to it, folks. The American people don't give a darn about any of this stuff that's going on up here. Look, they're sitting -- now, seriously, think about it. They're sitting down at their table tonight, they've put their kids to bed, and they're worrying about whether or not their child's going to run into a drug dealer on the way to school.
BIDEN: They're worrying about whether or not they're going to be able to pay for their mortgage, because even if they didn't have one of those subprime mortgages, things are looking bad for them. They're worrying about whether they're going to keep their job. And they're worrying about their son in the National Guard's going to get killed in Iraq. (Applause.)
BIDEN: Ladies and gentlemen, look, every -- every political campaign gets to this place. And I'm not criticizing any of the three people who are the ones who always get to talk all the time at these events. (Laughter.) I'm not. I'm not. I'm not criticizing. But look, folks, let's get straight to it here. This is not about experience, it's not about change, it's about action.
BIDEN: Who among us is going to be able to on day one step in, (end ?) the war. Who among us understands what to do about Pakistan? Who among us is going to pick up the phone and immediately interface with Putin and tell him to lay off Georgia because Saakashvili is in real trouble? Who among us knows what they're doing?
BIDEN: I have 35 years of experience. While everyone's talking about their experience -- and Hillary has a great experience, and John and the rest of them -- I was passing the Violence Against Women Act. I was passing the crime bill.
BIDEN: I was passing -- you're right. (Extended cheers and applause.)
EDWARDS: It's absolutely fair. But -- (applause) -- it's absolutely fair for people to learn from their experience and grow and mature and change. Anybody who's not willing to change based on what they learn is ignorant, and everybody ought to be willing to do that.
EDWARDS: That's not what I'm saying. I'm saying there's a difference between that and saying exact -- saying two contrary things at exactly the same time. I mean, for example, just over the course of the last week, Senator Clinton said in Washington that she would vote for the Peru trade deal -- (boos) -- and she said in Iowa, talking to union members, that she wanted a moratorium on trade deals.
EDWARDS: The important thing about this, though, is none of us -- none of us -- because the reality is -- and I want to add onto something that Joe Biden said. You know, before I came over here tonight, I was thinking, we're going to have this debate; when we finish, all of you are going to be on television saying, oh, who scored points, who won the debate. All of us are going to be fine. The question is, will America be fine?
EDWARDS: Because what I saw -- (cheers, applause) -- before we came over here on your troll underneath the screen, 35 million Americans last year went hungry. Thirty-seven million people in this country live in poverty every day. Forty-seven million Americans have no health care coverage. And there is a fundamental choice that everyone in this room and Democratic voters have to make, and that is, who do you believe will take on this system and change it so that it is no longer rigged, corrupt and --
EDWARDS: -- rigged against the interests --
EDWARDS: -- of the American people. That is the fundamental choice. And I think people are entitled to know that they have choices. There's nothing personal about this. This is about what America needs to be. This is about those 35 million people --
EDWARDS: -- who are hungry every single year. When is our party --
EDWARDS: -- going to show a little backbone and strength --
EDWARDS: -- and courage and speak up --
EDWARDS: -- for those people who have been left behind? (Cheers, applause.)
DODD: Well, let me pick up on this point here. I think, first of all, we Democrats have a job to do, and that is to unite this party, attract independents, Republicans who are seeking change to join us 12 months from now and elect a Democrat to the White House and to hold on to the House and Senate. That's number one. (Cheers, applause.) And it's going to take more than just getting people in our own party to support us. We're going to have to reach out.
DODD: There's a shrillness to the debate. The American people want results. They want the job done, exactly what Joe Biden talked about here. When people get up in the morning and go to work, they sit around and they worry about their jobs, their retirement, their health care, their kids' education, and they wonder if anybody in Washington is paying any attention to them and whether or not the job is being done on their behalf. And frankly, when a campaign is about turning up the heat or who's angrier or who's yelling louder, the American people turn off, in terms of listening. They want us to come together. They want a president that can lead the country. We want a Democratic candidate who can unite our party, and I think if we waste time on the shrillness of this debate, then we lose the American people. So it's important to focus on those.
DODD: Thank you. (Cheers, applause.)
RICHARDSON: By the way, I'm Bill Richardson. I'm the governor of New Mexico. (Laughter, cheers, applause.) Nice to meet you all.
RICHARDSON: You know, it seems that John wants to start a class war. It seems that Barack wants to start a generational war. It seems that Senator Clinton with all due respect on her plan on Iraq doesn't end the war -- (audio break from source). (Laughter, cheers.) And I say that -- I say that because these are the fundamental issues.
RICHARDSON: Do our plans end the war? Do our plans make America energy independent? Do our plans give health care to every American? Are we creating jobs and economic growth? Are we resolving the real problems affecting this country? You know, let's stop this mud slinging. Let's stop this going after each other on character, on trust. Let us debate the issues that affect the American people -- (cheers, applause) -- and let us be positive. Let's be positive.
EDWARDS: 
EDWARDS: Is that a planted question?
EDWARDS: Yes, I absolutely will support the Democratic nominee for president.
DODD: Absolutely yes. (Applause.)
CLINTON: Absolutely yes.
KUCINICH: Only if they oppose war as an instrument of policy. (Applause.)
RICHARDSON: Yes, I will support the nominee.
BIDEN: Hell, no, I wouldn't support any of these guys. (Laughter.)
BIDEN: No, I'm joking, joking. Of course, for them all.
OBAMA: I would say that they're justified in feeling frustrated because this administration -- the Bush administration -- has done nothing to control the problem that we have. We've had 5 million undocumented workers come over the borders since George Bush took office. It has become an extraordinary problem, and the reason the American people are concerned is because they are seeing their own economic position slip away.
OBAMA: And oftentimes employers are exploiting these undocumented workers. They're not paying them minimum wage. They're not observing worker safety laws. (Applause.) And so what we have to do is create a comprehensive solution to the problem.
OBAMA: Now, I have already stated that, as president, I will make sure that we finally have the kind of border security that we need. That's step number one. (Applause.)
OBAMA: Step number two is to take on employers. Right now, they -- an employer has more of a chance of getting hit by lightning than be prosecuted for hiring an undocumented worker. That has to change. They have to be held accountable. (Applause.)
OBAMA: And when we do those things -- when we do those things, I believe that we can take the undocumented workers, the illegal aliens who are here, get them out of the shadows, make sure that they are subject to a stiff penalty, make sure that they're learning English, make sure that they go to the back of the line so they're not getting an advantage over people who came here legally. And when we do that, I think that we can, instead of shedding all this heat, start shedding some light on the problem, and we can once again be a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants. That's what I intend to do as president of the United States. (Cheers, applause.)
OBAMA: When I was a state senator in Illinois, I voted to require that illegal aliens get trained, get a license, get insurance to protect public safety. (Scattered applause.) That was my intention. And -- but I have to make sure that people understand the problem we have here is not drivers licenses. Undocumented workers don't come here to drive. (Laughter.) They don't go -- they're not coming here to go to the In-N-Out Burger. That's not the reason they're here. They're here to work. And so instead of being distracted by what has now become a wedge issue, let's focus on actually solving the problem that --
OBAMA: -- this administration, the Bush administration, has done nothing about.
OBAMA: I am not proposing that that's what we do. What I'm saying is that we can't -- (interrupted by laughter). No, no, no, no, look, I have already said I support the notion that we have to deal with public safety and that drivers licenses at the state level can make that happen. But what I also --
OBAMA: But what I also know, Wolf, is that if we keep on getting distracted by this problem, then we are not solving it.
EDWARDS: Tell me again what your question is. (Laughter.)
EDWARDS: If we don't have --
EDWARDS: No, but I don't accept the proposition that we're not going to have comprehensive immigration reform. What I do support -- (scattered applause) -- and what I will do as president of the United States is move this country toward comprehensive immigration reform --
EDWARDS: -- and anyone who's on the path to earning American citizenship should be able to have a drivers license. (Scattered cheers, applause.)
DODD: Well, it's important to put it in context. Obviously, look, clarity is important here. The American people in a debate like this want clarity here, and certainly the whole idea of getting immigration reform, something I strongly support -- but I believe part of our job is to discourage those who want to come here. I understand why they want to come, but coming illegally creates serious problems, 4(00,000) to 500,000.
DODD: No, my belief is that giving a driver's -- as I've said from the very beginning here, I think driver's licenses are the wrong thing to be doing in terms of attracting people to come here as undocumented.
OBAMA: Yes.
OBAMA: (Cross talk.)
OBAMA: I am going to be fighting for comprehensive immigration reform, and we shouldn't pose the question that somehow we can't achieve that. I believe that the American people desperately want it. That's what I'm going to be fighting for as president.
CLINTON: No.
KUCINICH: I take issue with your description of people being illegal immigrants. There aren't any illegal human beings; that's number one. Number two, they're undocumented. And I believe that the best way to do it -- (applause) -- thank you -- I believe the best way to deal with this is cancel NAFTA and renegotiate the trade agreement with Mexico. (Cheers, applause.)
KUCINICH: Also --
KUCINICH: So the driver's --
KUCINICH: Give people -- Wolf --
KUCINICH: You give people a path to legalization, and then they can be legal and have their driver's license. That's the way to work it. That's the way to work it.
KUCINICH: You know what? You give people a path to legalization, and you work to make sure that you don't criminalize their status any further. And again, I take exception to the way you frame that question. (Applause.)
RICHARDSON: Well, my answer is yes, and I did it. You know why? Because the Congress -- I notice Barack mentioned the president, but the Congress also failed miserably to pass comprehensive immigration. And we need to have it in this country.
RICHARDSON: I did it four years ago. My legislature sent me a bill. I signed it. My law enforcement people said it's a matter of public safety. What we need is public safety, a reduction in traffic fatalities. We wanted more people to be insured. When we started with this program, 33 percent of all New Mexicans had -- were uninsured. Today it's 11 percent. Traffic fatalities have gone down. It's a matter of public safety.
RICHARDSON: The states have to act when the federal government and the Congress doesn't act. The answer is comprehensive immigration. (Cheers, applause.) The answer is --
RICHARDSON: -- secure the borders, a stronger relationship with Mexico. Those that knowingly hire illegal workers should be punished, and a path to legalization. That is the solution.
BIDEN: No. (Laughter, applause.)
DODD: Well, I think if you define excelling by teachers who will go into poor rural or poor urban areas and make a difference, mentor children after school, put in extra time to make a difference, then I think that sort of merit pay has value. If you're judging excelling by determining whether or not that teacher has students who do better because they're in better neighborhoods or better schools, I'm totally opposed to that. That's not the way to be judging these matters. (Cheers, applause.)
DODD: This is a -- this is critical. I always say this is the single most important issue. I've been asked the question, over 26 years in the Senate, 1,000 times. It's a very difficult question to answer: What's the most important issue?
DODD: This is the most important issue. Every other issue we grapple with depends upon our ability to have the best educated generation we've ever produced. (Applause.) And we need to have, in my view, far more cooperation at the national level.
DODD: We spend less than 5 percent of the national budget on elementary and secondary education. That is deplorable in my view. It's basically -- (applause). We need to fundamentally reform No Child Left Behind. No Child Left Behind is a disaster for most schools and most people. (Cheers, applause.)
DODD: I've spent -- I've spent 26 years in the Senate. I started the Children's Caucus 26 years ago with Arlen Specter. I wrote the legislation dealing with after-school programs, infant screening, autism issues as well. Spent a good deal of my time -- I -- Head Start Senator of the Decade by the Head Start Association. I've dedicated a good part of my public career to children and to education, one-quarter of the population but truly 100 percent of our future.
DODD: This is an issue that deserves far more attention. We ought to have one single debate on education. (Cheers, applause.) It comes up about once every two hours of the discussion. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: My father was a truck driver. He was a member of the Teamsters. I happen to be a member of the IATSE. I think that the trade -- that the union movement is essential to upholding human rights. And I think that if we had trade agreements that had workers' rights in them, that would lift up conditions for workers in this country and in all countries.
KUCINICH: So I'm the candidate of workers in this -- this campaign because I've stood for jobs for all, full-employment economy; health care for all; education for all. And the fact of the matter is that a Kucinich administration will mean a worker's White House.
KUCINICH: Right now wealth is being accelerated upwards, and I'm the one candidate in the race who comes right from the working class and can address those needs directly because I remember where I came from. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: Well, you know, the Teamsters wanted to drill in Alaska. I voted against drilling in Alaska. So it's not like I'm a slam dunk on every issue. (Scattered applause.)
KUCINICH: But I'm for working people. That's why I'm up here.
RICHARDSON: I think the key -- I want to be the education president. The key to a good education is a strong teacher. One of the problems we have in this country is we disrespect teachers. We underpay them. (Cheers, applause.) I would have a minimum wage for all teachers starting out at $40,000 per year.
RICHARDSON: And Chris, I think we need to be bolder with No Child Left Behind. I would junk it. This is a disaster. (Cheers, applause.) It's got to go. I would have preschool for every child. I'd have full day kindergarten. America is 29th in science to the European Union, to Japan. We need to have science and math academies, hire a hundred thousand science and math teachers, have art in the schools. We need also -- (interrupted by applause) -- we need also to have a college education policy that deals with these huge loans that are killing our college students. (Cheers, applause.)
RICHARDSON: And what I would do -- look, what I would do -- and you know, we're at a great college here.
RICHARDSON: What I would do is, in exchange for two years of tuition, government pays tuition, one year of national service for this country. (Applause.) Those are the kind of creative solutions we want in this country.
CLINTON: Well, I support school-based merit pay for a lot of the reasons Chris was talking about. We need to get more teachers to go into hard-to-serve areas. We've got to get them into underserved urban areas, underserved rural areas.
CLINTON: But the school is a team, and I think it's important that we reward that collaboration. You know, a child who moves from kindergarten to sixth grade, say, in the same school, every one of those teachers is going to affect that child.
CLINTON: Wolf, you need to weed out the teachers who are not doing a good job. I mean, that's the bottom line. (Applause.) They should not be teaching our children.
CLINTON: I mean, what I believe so strongly is that our education system has served this country very well. But we're in the 21st century. We do need to re-imagine it. We've got to get everybody to talk about it. But what I object to with the Bush administration is it's always talking down. We need to have a collegial collaboration. And the teachers need to be at the table --
CLINTON: -- helping us figure out what the best way is to achieve our goals.
BIDEN: An excellent teacher should be judged by whether or not that teacher, outside of the classroom, improves themselves and their teaching skills. My wife got two master's degrees and a doctorate degree. That's merit pay. She went out there and she earned the ability to be able to demonstrate to everyone that she was an exceptional teacher, because she went out and she gathered this additional knowledge instead of being -- not just being a good teacher.
BIDEN: Here's the problem with simple merit pay, based on the principle. Who makes the decision, based on merit pay? (Applause.) Who's the person who -- (inaudible)? I believe there should be teaching excellence. I think we should demand more of our teachers in continuing education. I think there should -- and unions don't like that. I think we should demand more of the teachers in terms of their participation after school and in school. But I think you've got to pay them.
BIDEN: And the last point I'll make is Bill is correct; you have to -- look, the idea you start teachers at $28,000 in most states when, in the countries we're competing with, they start off and they graduate their -- the graduating seniors are getting the same pay that engineers are getting in those same schools.
BIDEN: My father has an expression, God love him, before he passed away. He'd say, "Don't tell me what you value. Show me your budget, and I will tell you what you value." I've laid out a $30 billion plan -- (applause) -- over five years --
BIDEN: -- (to pay ?) -- 16 years of education is what our kids need. They need to start two years earlier and be guaranteed two years after school.
BIDEN: First of all, I do not think we should maintain the same aid we're giving. I have made it clear to Musharraf personally, when he called me, and I've spoken personally to Bhutto -- before, I might add, the president spoke to either one of them -- I spoke to them and I indicated very clearly two things.
BIDEN: One, if he did not take off his uniform, if he did not hold fair and free elections by the middle of January, I would, on the floor of the Senate, move to take away the aid we're giving with regard to F- 16s and P-3s, because that's the biggest leverage you have on him within his military. He is not a sole player. He has to keep his military happy as well. I would use that leverage.
BIDEN: Secondly, I've indicated that what we should do is move from a Musharraf policy to a Pakistan policy. Unlike anyone else, within five days of this happening I laid out a detailed plan. The president hasn't. No one on this stage has. No one else has -- a detailed plan as president how I would proceed with Iraq. And you have to move from military aid to giving to the middle class there. The middle class is overwhelmingly the majority. They get no connection with the United States. We have to significantly increase our economic aid relative to education, relative to NGOs, relative to all those things that make a difference in the lives of ordinary people over there, and not be doing it through the military side.
BIDEN: I know there's more to say, Campbell. I appreciate you asking me the question and I'm sorry I answered it. I know you're not supposed to answer questions, based on what I've heard. (Laughter.)
RICHARDSON: Well, of course, I'm worried. But what happened with our Pakistan policy, we got our principles wrong. We forgot our principles, our principles that we said to Musharraf, you know, Musharraf, security is more important than human rights. If I'm president, it's the other way around -- (applause) -- democracy and human rights.
RICHARDSON: What I would do is, yes, I would condition the assistance to Musharraf. We give him $10 billion. 60 percent of that is to his military. I would say, President Musharraf, unless you restore the constitution, unless you have elections in January, unless you end the state of emergency, unless you allow Benazir Bhutto to run as a candidate, unless you put the supreme court back.
RICHARDSON: And something else we've forgotten: He is supposed to go after terrorists on his border, and he has done a very weak job of doing that. (Scattered applause.) And you know, I would condition the assistance.
RICHARDSON: But here is another point -- no, but here's another point. Pakistani -- in Pakistan -- in the politics of Pakistan, Islamic parties get maybe 15 percent of the vote. I mean, so this threat that, oh, revolutionary elements are going to overtake him -- if he has a fair election, and you take his party and Benazir Bhutto's party and you get the military --
RICHARDSON: -- I believe that moderate forces can win. So if we're on the side of democracy and human rights and we're on the side of Musharraf having elections, then U.S. interests are preserved and the Pakistani people have a democracy. (Applause.)
RICHARDSON: Yes, because I believe we -- (applause) -- we need to find ways to say to the world that, you know, it's not just about what Halliburton wants in Iraq, it's also about our -- (cheers, applause) -- values of freedom, equality. Our strength is not just military and economic. Our strength as a nation is our values -- equality, freedom, democracy --
RICHARDSON: -- human rights. (Applause.)
RICHARDSON: That's why we are strong.
EDWARDS: Well, I think first of all, we have some basic goals that we need to be focused on with respect to Pakistan. One is to make sure that the extremists in northwest Pakistan are under control. Second, that we provide support for the democratic reformers. Third is that -- Senator Biden just spoke about, to make sure these elections take place in January. And fourth, we need to make certain that the nuclear weapons are under control.
EDWARDS: Now, this leads to a bigger question. I think Pakistan is the living, breathing example that America's ad hoc policy of dealing with the spread of nuclear weapons, while it's absolutely required in today's world given what's happening with Iran, given what we see today in Pakistan and the incredible fragility of the administration in Pakistan and the presence of extraordinary extremist elements within Pakistan, that this is the living, breathing example --
EDWARDS: -- of a policy that will not work over the long term.
EDWARDS: I'm about to finish. What we have to do, what America needs to do and what I will do as president of the United States is to lead a long-term international effort to rid the world of nuclear weapons.
EDWARDS: It is the only way we're going to keep the world secure and keep America secure. (Applause.)
OBAMA: The concepts are not contradictory, Wolf.
OBAMA: They -- they --- they -- they -- they are complementary, and I think Pakistan is a great example. Look, we paid $10 billion over the last seven years, and we two goals, deal with terrorism and restore democracy, and we've gotten neither. And Joe and Bill are exactly right on this. Pakistan's democracy would strengthen our battle against extremists. The more we see repression, the more there are no outlets for how people can express themselves and their aspirations, the worse off we're going to be and the more anti-American sentiment there's going to be in the Middle East. We keep on making this mistake.
OBAMA: As president, I will do everything that is required to make sure that nuclear weapons don't fall into the hands of extremists, especially going after al Qaeda in the hills between Afghanistan and Pakistan. But we've got to understand that if we simply prop up anti- democratic practices, that that feeds the sense that America is only concerned about us and that our fates are not tied to these other folks.
OBAMA: And that's -- that's going to make us less safe. That's something I intend to change as president. (Applause.)
OBAMA: MR. : Wolf --
DODD: Well, first of all, I hope -- maybe other people find it as ironic as I do to have President Bush urging the Turks not to invade the Kurdish areas of Iraq and lecturing Musharraf about restoring the constitution. This is an administration that has stepped all over our own Constitution in the process. (Applause.)
DODD: And this isn't -- elections are -- there's an expression in Spanish that says elections --
DODD: Well, obviously national security, keeping the country safe. When you take the oath of office on January 20th --
BIDEN: That's right.
DODD: -- you promise to do two things, and that is to protect and defend the Constitution of the United States and protect our country against enemies both foreign and domestic. The security of the country is number one, obviously, yes, all right?
DODD: Now secondly, this doesn't mean -- elections are only one note, as they say, in the tune of democracy here. Be careful what you wish for. If they were totally free elections in many of these countries we're talking about today, the Islamic jihad or the Islamic Brotherhood would win 85 percent of the vote. That's not a great outcome for us at this point here.
DODD: So we need to have a sense of balance about this here.
DODD: I disagree with those who suggest here that we ought to condition Musharraf's actions regarding some of these issues on aid and assistance here.
DODD: There's only one way in Afghanistan; it's through Pakistan. The generals in the military control the nuclear weaponry here. We need to move and remind Musharraf that there are obligations he needs to fulfill. Be careful here about --
DODD: Let me finish Musharraf, because literally, then you have to do what you say you're going to do. And if he doesn't do what he's suggesting, then you have to terminate that relationship, and that puts this country in a very, very dangerous position.
CLINTON: I agree with that completely. I mean the first obligation of the president of the United States is to protect and defend the United States of America. That doesn't mean that it is to the exclusion of other interests.
CLINTON: And there's absolutely a connection between a democratic regime and heightened security for the United States. That's what's so tragic about this situation. After 9/11, President Bush had a chance to chart a different course, both in Pakistan and in Afghanistan, and could have been very clear about what our expectations were. We are now in a bind, and it is partly -- not completely, but partly -- a result of the failed policies of the Bush administration.
CLINTON: So, where we are today means that we have to say to President Musharraf: Look, this is not in your interest either. This is not in the interest of the United States. It is not in your interest to either stay in power or stay alive. We have to figure out how we're going to navigate this.
CLINTON: When I was meet ing with him earlier this year, I asked him if he would accept a high-level presidential envoy to begin to negotiate some of these issues.
CLINTON: He said, yes, I got back; I called the White House; I asked them to send such a high-level envoy. They did not do it; they're going to send one now.
CLINTON: So I mean, you've got to stay on top of this and you have to manage it all the time. That requires presidential attention. We haven't had that, and part of the reason is obvious now. (Cheers, applause.)
KUCINICH: Hello? Hello?
RICHARDSON: John, we shouldn't be talking about body counts. One American death is too much.
RICHARDSON: And -- (interrupted by cheers, applause) -- what I am saying here is the surge is not working. There is less -- right now less possibility of a political solution. Three out of the 18 benchmarks -- the General Accounting Office -- have been fulfilled. Even among Republican math is a failing grade. (Laughter.) What I'm saying, also, is that look at this statistic -- 65 percent of the Iraqi people now say it's okay to shoot an American soldier. Our troops are dying -- over 3,800, two today, 60,000 wounded, casualties, mainly mental trauma.
RICHARDSON: Now, my position is that we get the troops out in a year. Leave no residual forces behind unlike some of my colleagues here that want to leave some until 2013, but not just wave goodbye because we have a responsibility, and that is, one, to get a political compromise, a U.S.-led political compromise among the three groups; that they share power -- the Sunni, the Shi'a, the Kurds -- that they share oil revenues; that we have an all-Muslim, all-Arab peacekeeping force with some European forces headed by the U.N.; a donor conference that involves other countries; European Union, rich Arab states contributing to the reconstruction of Iraq, where we have spent --
RICHARDSON: -- $500 billion --
RICHARDSON: -- in this war when this money should be used in America for health care, education and for kids. (Cheers, applause.)
KUCINICH: Excuse me?
KUCINICH: No, the occupation is fueling the insurgency. In 2003, I put forth a plan to get out of Iraq. I'm actually the only one on this stage who voted against the war, voted against funding the war a hundred percent of the time -- (cheers, applause) -- and also who has a plan to bring the troops home, and they should be brought home now. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: And let me tell you something. The Democrats in Congress have not done the right thing for the American people. They should tell President Bush we're not going to give you another time. We're not putting a bill on the floor. Bring them home now. (Cheers, applause.)
KUCINICH: Also, when you talked about Pakistan you didn't get a chance to me on that question, but I want to point something out to you, Wolf. You cannot look at Pakistan and the destabilization that's occurring in many Muslim nations without understanding the role that our aggression against Iraq has played in contributing to that destabilization. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: So I'm speaking about a new policy of strength through peace, no more unilateralism, no more preemption, no more first strike -- to open dialogue, diplomacy, adherence to international law. (Applause.)
OBAMA: There is no doubt that because we put American troops in Iraq -- more American troops in Iraq, that they are doing a magnificent job, and they are making a difference in certain neighborhoods.
OBAMA: But the overall strategy is failed, because we have not seen any change in behavior among Iraq's political leaders. And that is the essence of what we should be trying to do in Iraq.
OBAMA: That's why I'm going to bring this war to a close. That's why we can get our combat troops out within 16 months. That's why we have to initiate the kind of regional diplomacy -- not just talking to our friends but talking to our enemies, like Iran and Syria, to try to stabilize the situation there. (Applause.)
OBAMA: But I just want to make this important point because all of us, as we're campaigning, we're seeing this in human terms. People are on two, three, four tours of duty. Families are carrying an enormous burden.
OBAMA: This year, we saw the highest casualty rates for American troops in Iraq since this war started. The same, by the way, is true in Afghanistan. If we have seen a lowering violence rate, that's only compared to earlier this year. We're back to where we started back in 2006.
OBAMA: And so the notion that somehow because we've gone from horrific violence to just intolerable levels of violence, and that somehow that justifies George Bush's strategy, is absolutely wrong. And I'm going to bring it to a halt when I'm president of the United States. (Cheers, applause.)
KUCINICH: Well, of course they do; I mean, in the same way that people who voted for the war bear responsibility for what's going on, people who voted for the Patriot Act bear responsibility for what's going on -- (cheers, applause) -- people who voted for Yucca Mountain bear responsibility. People have to take responsibility for their positions.
KUCINICH: Now, let's talk about China trade. The fact of the matter is, Wolf, it was well known when China trade came up that China doesn't have environmental quality standards, doesn't have health standards, doesn't have workers' rights, doesn't permit people to form unions. Everyone knew that.
KUCINICH: And for someone to come up afterwards -- and I think in the last debate I think Hillary Clinton was criticized by John Edwards for some trade-related issue; but the fact of the matter is, John, you voted for China trade understanding that workers were going to be hurt.
KUCINICH: Now, you're a trial lawyer. You knew better. I'm saying that it's important -- (boos) --
KUCINICH: Really.
KUCINICH: This is a fact, though. I mean, I'm not backing down from this. This is a fact.
KUCINICH: People have to take responsibility for their positions. (Applause.)
EDWARDS: Well -- (chuckles) -- I'm not sure what being a trial lawyer has to do with it, but -- what my response is --
KUCINICH: Product liability.
EDWARDS: -- America -- America's trade -- (laughs) -- cute. Cute, Dennis. (Applause.)
EDWARDS: I think America's -- America's trade policy has been a complete disaster. I do believe that. NAFTA, CAFTA, Colombia, Korea, Peru -- which we're now considering -- has been a complete and total disaster.
EDWARDS: And I think it's really important to pull what's been happening with trade into the bigger picture of what's happening with America because what I believe is that powerful interests -- particularly big corporate interests -- have literally taken over this government, and they've taken over it against the interests of ordinary Americans. (Applause.) And a living, breathing example of that is, in 1993, when we were in control of the White House, of the United States Senate and the United States House, we made an effort to pass universal health care.
EDWARDS: The big drug companies, insurance companies and their lobbyists killed it. At the same time, NAFTA was put on the table.
EDWARDS: The big corporations in America were for NAFTA.
EDWARDS: So what did we get with a Democratic Congress, with a Democratic president? We didn't -- no, let me finish this. We didn't get something that America desperately needed, which is universal health care, but we got something America did not need, which is NAFTA, which has cost us millions of jobs. (Applause.) We will not change this country if we replace a crowd of corporate Republicans with corporate Democrats. (Cheers, applause.) We have to give the power in this democracy back to the American people. That's what's at stake in this election.
EDWARDS: I think what's the mistake is allowing China to operate unfettered, to send dangerous products into this country, to not have the president of the United States hold them responsible for their trading obligations or the WTO, which has not been done.
EDWARDS: I think it was right to bring them into WTO. It's wrong to not hold them responsible for their obligations.
CLINTON: All I can remember from that is a bunch of charts. (Laughter.) That sort of is a vague memory.
CLINTON: Look, NAFTA did not do what many had hoped, and so we do need to take a look at it and we do need to figure out how we're going to have trade relations that are smart, that give the American worker and the American consumer rights around the world.
CLINTON: And I want to go back to Campbell's question for a minute because it's really related to this. It is something that every parent should be worried about. It's not only the toys; it's the pet food, it's the medical components and prescription drugs. If we don't impose a third-party, independent investigative arm on our corporations that do business in China as well as the Chinese government, we should not permit any items to be imported into our country until we're sure they're safe. (Applause.) I mean, that to me is rule number one. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: It was passed in the Clinton administration.
CLINTON: NAFTA was a mistake to the extent that it did not deliver on what we had hoped it would, and that's why I call for a trade timeout when I am president. I'm going to evaluate every trade agreement. We do need to get back to enforcing the ones we have, which the Bush administration has not done. They have totally abdicated that. But I think we have to get broader than that. We've got to have enforceable labor and environmental standards. We've got the WTO that enforces financial and corporate rights; we need the International Labor Organization and other mechanisms that will be there to enforce labor rights and environmental rights, and that's what I intend to do as president. (Cheers, applause.)
DODD: Well, first of all, look: I respect the fact that we're calling for timeouts, but as was pointed out earlier by John Edwards, we've had Senator Obama and Senator Clinton both came out in support of the Peruvian free trade agreement -- now switching our positions on these issues here for the convenience of a debate and discussion on where polling data may be.
DODD: We are in a global economy. It is critically important that we do everything we can to expand those markets so that our products and our services can be sold in foreign nations here. It was outrageous in a sense here -- had a U.S. corporation produced contaminated toys or food, they would have been shut down in 20 minutes.
DODD: MR. : Absolutely.
DODD: I called upon the president to put a moratorium on trade coming out of China when those products were announced to be contaminated. It should have stopped right then and there for eternity. (Applause.)
OBAMA: Well, first of all, I hope Chris is clear -- I haven't changed positions on Peru. I am intending to --
DODD: Oh, you are for it.
OBAMA: I am for it, and I plan to vote for it because it is a small country.
DODD: Okay.
OBAMA: This is a trade agreement that has the labor agreements and the environmental agreements that we've been fighting for in it, and I think it's the right thing to do.
OBAMA: I am opposed to CAFTA. I've been opposed to South Korea.
OBAMA: But going back to the issue of China -- you know what Japan does with the Chinese when it comes to, for example, food importation? They send their own inspectors over to China and they set up their own safety system and they say, "If you don't abide by our rules, you can't send food into Japan."
OBAMA: Now, the question is, why doesn't the United States impose these same rules and regulations as Japan has? (Cheers, applause.) This is the biggest market -- this is the biggest market in the world. China has to sell here.
OBAMA: But this goes back to how we did most favored nation trading status with China. The problem was we had one (level ?) when we allowed them in. We should have said, "We will review this every single year, so if you are not behaving properly, if you are not safeguarding our consumers and we find that you are not looking out for American workers or the administration is not, we won't have that subject to review." That was the failure on that China bill.
BIDEN: Wolf -- 30 seconds, Wolf. Thirty seconds.
BIDEN: Look, it's not the agreement; it's the man. Under the WTO, we can shut this down. What are they all talking about here? It's about a president who won't enforce the law. (Applause.) When they contaminated chicken, what happened? They cut off all chickens going in from Delaware -- a $3 billion industry -- into China. They cut it off. We have power under the -- this agreement. I don't know what anybody's talking about here. Enforce the agreement.
BIDEN: Shut it down. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: (Inaudible) -- put it there from the beginning.
KUCINICH: They weren't -- it wasn't in there from the beginning.
KUCINICH: It wasn't in there from the beginning. That -- it wasn't in there from the beginning -- (inaudible).
OBAMA: Well, as I've said, I don't think it's fair to send it to Nevada, because we're producing it. (Applause.)
OBAMA: So what we have to do is, we've got to develop the storage capacity based on sound science. Now, laboratories like Argonne in my own home state are trying to develop ways to safely store nuclear waste without having to ship it across the country and put it in somebody else's backyard. But keep in mind that I don't think nuclear power is necessarily our best option. It has to be part of our energy mix.
OBAMA: We have a genuine crisis that has to be addressed and as president, I intend to address it, and here's what we have to do. We have to, first of all, cap greenhouse gases, because climate change is real. And it's going to impact Nevada and it's impacting the entire planet. (Cheers, applause.)
OBAMA: That means that we're going to have to tell polluters, we are going to charge you money when you send pollution into the air, that's creating climate change. That money we can then reinvest in solar, in wind, in biodiesel, in clean coal technology and in superior nuclear technology.
OBAMA: Well, right now it is on site in many situations, and that is not the optimal situation, Wolf. But don't keep on assuming that we can't do something. I mean, this is about the third time where you said, "assuming we can't do it, what's our option?"
OBAMA: Well, but I'm running for president because I think we can do it. (Cheers, applause.)
RICHARDSON: Wolf? Wolf?
OBAMA: I reject -- I reject the notion that we can't meet our energy challenges.
OBAMA: We can if we've got bold leadership in the White House that is saying we are going to do something about climate change, we are going to develop renewable energy sources. That's what I intend to do as president. And we shouldn't, you know, be pessimistic about the future of America. (Scattered applause.)
RICHARDSON: Well, you mentioned all the labs, Argonne, Yucca Mountain. I was in charge of them. Here's what you do.
RICHARDSON: First, the future is renewable. It's not oil, it's not coal, it's not nuclear. (Applause.) What you do with the waste is you don't put it in Yucca Mountain. All my life -- as secretary of Energy, as a congressman -- I opposed the site for environmental reasons, water saturation.
RICHARDSON: I don't think the answer, also, is in regional sites.
RICHARDSON: There's a technological solution, a scientific solution. What I would do, I would turn Yucca Mountain into a national laboratory. We have the greatest brains, our national lab scientists. We need to find a way to safely dispose of nuclear waste. There is a technological solution.
RICHARDSON: But while we do that, we shouldn't be giving the nuclear power industry all of these advantages in the Senate bills that are coming forth, or subsidies. Oil, coal and nuclear are getting most of the subsidies.
RICHARDSON: We need an energy revolution in this country -- (applause) -- to shift from fossil fuels to renewable sources by 50 percent by the year 2020. Eighty percent reduction of greenhouse emissions, a mandate.
RICHARDSON: We need to have 30 percent of our electricity renewable.
RICHARDSON: And it's got to be also the American people -- I'm g going to say this honestly -- sacrificing a little bit when it comes to appliances -- (applause) -- and when it comes to being part of an energy efficiency revolution.
CLINTON: Well, I'm not exploiting anything at all. I'm not playing, as some people say, the gender card here in Los Vegas. I'm just trying to play the winning card, and I understand well that -- (cheers, applause) -- people are not attacking me because I'm a woman. They're attacking me because I'm ahead, and I understand -- (interrupted by laughter, cheers) -- that -- you know, as Harry Truman famously said, "If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen." (Cheers.) And I feel very comfortable in the kitchen, and I'm going to -- (laughter) -- you know, withstand the heat.
CLINTON: But you know, this is really one of the kind of issues that we can laugh about because it's exciting when you look at this field of candidates.
CLINTON: You know, several of us would never have had a chance to stand here and run for president -- a Latino, an African American, a woman -- if it hadn't been for the progress of America over my lifetime. (Cheers, applause.) And I am thrilled to be running to be the first woman president.
CLINTON: Campbell. (Laughter.)
CLINTON: Well, it is clear, I think, from women's experiences that from time to time, there may be some impediments. (Laughter.) And it has been my goal over the course of my lifetime to be part of this great movement of progress, that includes all of us but has particularly been significant to me as a woman. And to be able to aim toward the highest, hardest glass ceiling is history- making.
CLINTON: Now, I'm not running because I'm a woman. I'm running because I think I'm the best qualified and experienced person to hit the ground running. (Cheers, applause.) But it's humbling. It's inspiring.
CLINTON: And I have to tell you, as I travel around the country, you know, fathers drive hours to bring their daughters to my events. And so many women in their 90s wait to shake my hand. And they say something like, I'm 95 years old; I was born before women could vote, and I want to live long enough to see a woman in the White House.
EDWARDS: I think -- are you looking at me? (Laughs.)
EDWARDS: I think that every single candidate on this stage should be held to exactly the same standard.
EDWARDS: I do believe, however, that the voters need to know that we have choices. There's nothing personal about this. I think there are very good people running in the Democratic Party for president, and we need to have a strong candidate in this presidential race.
EDWARDS: But I think there are differences between us, and voters are entitled to know what those differences are without it being personal, without it being attack-oriented.
EDWARDS: I spoke earlier about the difference between corporate Democrats and corporate Republicans and how critical it is for us to give the power in the democracy back to the American people so we can give a better life to our children, as 20 generations before us have done.
EDWARDS: And my point is, some of us have taken a different approach to that. Senator Clinton defends the system, takes money from lobbyists, does all those things. And my point is simply that people have -- (chorus of boos) -- no, wait a minute. Voters have those choices. Voters have those choices. They deserve to know that they have those choices and that there are, in fact, differences between us. But I think every one of us should be held to the same standard.
BIDEN: The way to do that, ma'am, is to not ratchet up the winds of war here. We had a vote in the United States Senate on declaring the Qods Force -- their special forces -- and the Revolutionary Guard to be a terrorist organization. A lot of people voted for that; 70 some voted for it. It's a serious, serious mistake because what it does, it was completely counterproductive. (Applause.)
BIDEN: What it did was, ma'am, what it did was it convinced the rest of the Muslim world this is really a war against Islam and not a war in Iraq; and number two, it rose the -- it caused the price of oil to head to $100 a barrel. We're paying $30 a barrel for what they call a risk premium. And it helped destabilize the situation both in Iran -- I mean Afghanistan and Pakistan.
BIDEN: So the way to do this is to keep quiet, hush up, and do what I told the president personally and what I've said as chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee. If he takes the country to war in Iraq (sic) without a vote of Congress, which will not exist, then he should be impeached. (Cheers, applause.)
CLINTON: I do.
BIDEN: I wasn't attacking Senator Clinton.
BIDEN: Very quickly, Senator Obama.
OBAMA: Well, Chris, we appreciate your service, and your mom, I can only imagine what she went through when you were away, so we're glad you're back home.
OBAMA: But understand the problem with this vote on the Iranian Revolutionary Guard. It wasn't simply that it was identified as a terrorist organization. It was also that in the language of the resolution it said we should maintain our forces in Iraq with an eye towards blunting Iranian influence. So it's not just going to have an impact in terms of potentially having a war against Iran. It also gives this administration an excuse to perpetuate their failed strategy in Iraq, and that could mean that you could be redeployed in Iraq. That's why this was a mistake, and that's why not only do we have to bring the war in Iraq to a close, but we have to change the mindset that got us into war, which means we initiate -- yes, I agree with Hillary that we've got to initiate bold diplomacy. I think the next president has to lead that diplomacy. It can't just be envoys.
OBAMA: And one of the reasons I'm running for president -- and Hillary and I had a disagreement on this. I said I would meet with not just our friends, but also with our enemies because that's what strong countries and -- (cheers, applause) -- what strong presidents do is meet with our adversaries, tell them where we stand. (Continued applause.)
OBAMA: No, this is true. And it was a mistake. This is one of the hazards of running for president. But the -- but what I've -- but what I have consistently said, and I said at the time of the vote, was that we should not take steps that would increase troop presences inside Iraq with an eye towards blunting the impact of Iran. I always think that's a mistake.
RICHARDSON: Yes. I would pull out all the contractors. (Cheers, applause.) I would get them all out, just like I would get all our troops out, all residual forces. And I would do it within a year.
RICHARDSON: Here's my answer.
RICHARDSON: What I believe we need to do is we need to reform our military. This is what I would do.
RICHARDSON: This war in Iraq has bled us enormously, has bled our military enormously. I would find ways to keep the all-volunteer force. Now, I would say to you that I would have two more divisions in the Army, two more in the Marines. I would increase military pay and educational benefits, a new G.I. Bill for our military. (Applause.)
RICHARDSON: But what I would also do is with our veterans, you know, and military families. I would have a heroes health card for every military person in this country -- (applause) -- which would mean that they could get health care, not just at the VA system but anywhere they want. I would fully guarantee funding at the VA.
RICHARDSON: And most importantly the big, big challenge is mental health. We don't treat mental health with the parity that this country deserves. And our kids coming back from Iraq, Afghanistan, Vietnam -- there's a huge burden, mental trauma, traumatic brain injury, PTSD. And we have a VA system and we have a mental health system in this country that is not given the parity, the coverage that it deserves.
EDWARDS: I say he's right, he's right, and this administration has done more than abuse the Patriot Act. And the Patriot Act needs to be dramatically changed, by the way. (Cheers, applause.)
EDWARDS: But in addition to that, the racial profiling that you're describing has to be stopped, and it will be stopped when I'm president of the United States. And we're going to take the steps that need to be taken to restore America's moral leadership in the world, and that means a whole group of things: stopping the profiling, stopping the illegal -- and I use that term intentionally -- the illegal spying on the American people that this president has been engaged in -- (cheers, applause) -- closing Guantanamo, which I think is a national embarrassment -- (cheers, applause) -- no more secret prisons, no more rendition.
EDWARDS: And it's just absolutely amazing to me that there's actually an open discussion in the United States of America about what kind of torture will be tolerated. I'll tell you what kind of torture will be tolerated when I'm president of the United States, no torture will be tolerated when I'm president of the United States. (Cheers, applause.)
EDWARDS: We're going to restore our respect in the world.
KUCINICH: That's because I read it. (Laughter, cheers.)
KUCINICH: I -- you're owed an apology. You really are. And every American should be able to present themselves without having to be further scrutinized based on ethnic identity.
KUCINICH: But let's go back to the point that you made here. The time -- you know, the president of the United States is called upon to make the right decision at the right time. And you've seen here tonight people who voted for the war, voted to fund the war, and now they have a different position; people who voted for the Patriot Act, now they have a different position; people who voted for China trade, now they have a different position; people who voted for Yucca Mountain, now they had a different position. Just imagine what it will be like to have a president of the United States who's right the first time. Just imagine. (Cheers, applause.)
KUCINICH: And -- and I don't think -- I don't think that the first questioner's question was really answered, about what are you going to do about this president, and for that matter the vice president, because they're out of control and the Congress isn't doing anything. (Applause.) I --
KUCINICH: It's called impeachment, and you don't wait. You do it now. (Cheers, applause.)
KUCINICH: You don't wait. (Cheers, applause.)
KUCINICH: Now. (Cheers, applause.)
KUCINICH: Impeach them now.
BIDEN: You know, let's -- facts are a funny thing; they get in the way. (Laughter.) You know what I mean?
BIDEN: There is nothing in the Patriot Act that allows profiling. Let's get that straight.
BIDEN: Nothing in the Patriot Act allows profiling, number one. You're profiled illegally. I have voted against and worked with legislation with many people on this stage to stop profiling. That's number one. It did not. It's not because of the Patriot Act. It's a convenient thing to talk about, number one.
BIDEN: Number two, you know, when we had a chance to close down Guantanamo, I voted against funding Guantanamo. Other folks up here voted for funding it, including the two leading candidates. I voted to not build the new $36 million part. I called for closing it three years ago.
BIDEN: And so folks, this -- but this is not about who was right when, it's what's your plan now? What are you going to do now? (Applause.)
KUCINICH: That's not true.
RICHARDSON: By the way, Dennis, you keep -- stop including me in all these votes. I've been a governor. I'm in New Mexico. (Laughter.) I'm not in Washington. (Applause.)
RICHARDSON: Here's my answer. You know, two years ago -- and I'm the only one that's dealt with the immigration issue directly.
RICHARDSON: You know, and by the way, with the Congress, let me just say, the Congress's approval rating is 11 percent. Now, you know who's higher? Dick Cheney and HMOs. (Laughter.)
RICHARDSON: My point is that, you know, let's talk about the need to bring this together. Dysfunctional relationships exist between the president and the Congress that needs to be corrected.
RICHARDSON: Here's my answer. Two years ago, I'm the first governor that declared a border emergency because the federal government wasn't doing its job in stopping the flow of drugs and people. But you know what? We should stop demonizing immigrants. We should stop doing that. (Applause.)
RICHARDSON: And I'm against the fence -- and I am against the fence because it will not work. The Congress only funded half of the fence, and it's not America.
RICHARDSON: What I would do is I would do four quick things. One, we have to secure the border. Double the number of Border Patrol agents. Keep the National Guard there a little longer; detection equipment, as you mentioned.
RICHARDSON: Secondly, those that knowingly hire illegal workers should be punished. (Applause.)
RICHARDSON: Third, we should have a relationship -- it's called foreign policy -- with Mexico. They're our friend. But we should speak frankly to our friends, and it should be something like this. "Mexico, give jobs to your people." (Cheers, applause.) "You know, at the very least, stop handing out maps on the easiest place to cross." (Laughter.) And then, lastly, a legalization plan -- a legalization plan --
RICHARDSON: -- not amnesty, not citizenship, but a path to legalization that involves conditions -- learning English --
RICHARDSON: -- paying back taxes.
RICHARDSON: This is a very important issue.
DODD: Well, first of all -- (speaks in Spanish). (Cheers, applause.)
DODD: I was in the Peace Corps in the Dominican Republic.
DODD: I argued at some points that fence, at certain places, you could make a case that a wall might help; not across the entire border. I'm opposed to that, but the idea of having some sort of better security, including additional guards, additional technology here that would allow us to deal with the issues. But there ought not to be any correlation here.
DODD: When you take the oath of office, you don't swear to uphold the Constitution or protect the country. I believe by upholding our rights, we do protect the country. And the administration has taken the opposite view. They're posing to us the false choice, the dichotomy that to be safer, we have to give up rights. I think that's so fundamentally flawed and fundamentally dangerous for the United States of America to (embrace ?) that idea. (Applause.)
OBAMA: 
OBAMA: Well, first of all, Judy, thank you for the question, and thanks for the great work you do on behalf of the culinary workers; a great union here. (Applause.)
OBAMA: Look, this is something that we've talked about in our campaign. We've got 78 million baby boomers who are going to be retiring and the first thing we have to do is to put an end to George Bush raiding the Social Security trust fund to pay for a misguided war in Iraq. (Applause.) If we take some of that money back and we start getting control of our budget and have fiscal discipline, that will make some of the difference, but not all of it, because we're going to have more senior citizens, more retirees and fewer workers.
OBAMA: So I've been very specific about saying that we should not privatize; we should protect benefits. I don't think the best way to approach this is to raise the retirement age. But what we can do is adjust the cap on the payroll tax. Right now anybody who's making $97,000 or less, you pay payroll tax on 100 percent of your income. Warren Buffet, who made $46 million last year, pays on a fraction of 1 percent of his income. And if we make that small adjustment, we can potentially close that gap and we can make sure Social Security is there. (Applause.)
OBAMA: Last point because -- just because I have to answer the full question.
OBAMA: Medicare is a tougher problem because we've got health care inflation going up, and I am meeting people all across the country who just can't manage, even if they've got health insurance. Their premiums have gone up 78 percent since George Bush took office. It's a scam, and people are getting desperate.
OBAMA: The only way we're going to fix Medicare is if we get that rising cost under control, and that means having a universal health care plan where every single person has prevention and they are able to get the treatments they need. We're instituting health technologies and managing the chronically ill so that we save money; we provide coverage for everybody. That over the long term will save Medicare enormous amounts of money, and it will be there for you.
CLINTON: Well, I'll tell you what I'm for, and I think Judy raises two really important issues. I am for getting back to fiscal responsibility. I think I counted you said "deficit" three times. Six and a half years ago when George Bush came into office, he inherited a balanced budget and a surplus -- (applause) -- and the Social Security system was on a path to be solvent into 2055.
CLINTON: We have long-term challenges with Social Security. We have a crisis with Medicare, just like we have a crisis with health care costs. We have a crisis with energy costs. We have a lot of very intense challenges we have to meet right now. So what I want to do is move back toward fiscal responsibility. I think if we don't do that, we're not going to deal with any of these problems adequately. Then I think we will demonstrate that we're serious about getting our house in order again --
CLINTON: -- and then I think we have to have a bipartisan commission. I do not want to fix the problems of Social Security on the backs of middle class families and seniors. (Applause.) If you lift the cap completely, that is a $1 trillion tax increase. I don't think we need to do that.
CLINTON: But I want to say one final word about Medicare. Number one, Medicare should be able to negotiate for lower drug prices. (Applause.)
CLINTON: It was a travesty when the Bush administration did not allow that to happen, and I have a lot of other ideas about how we'll preserve and strengthen Medicare.
OBAMA: I will be very brief on this because, Hillary, I've heard you say this is a trillion dollar tax cut on the middle class by adjusting the cap. Understand that only 6 percent of Americans make more than $97,000 -- (cheers, applause) -- so 6 percent is not the middle class -- it's the upper class.
OBAMA: And you know, this is the kind of thing that I would expect from Mitt Romney or Rudy Giuliani -- (laughter, boos, cheers, applause) -- where we start playing with numbers -- we start playing with numbers in order to try to make a point. (Cheers, applause.) And we can't do that. No, no, no, no, no. This is -- this is -- this is too important. This is too important for us to pretend that we're using numbers like a trillion dollar tax cut instead of responsibly dealing with a problem that Judy asked for, and she said she wants a specific answer. And that's what I provided.
OBAMA: But understand, this is the top 6 percent, and that is not the middle class. (Cheers, applause.) MR. BLITZER: Senator?
CLINTON: First of all -- first of all, I think that you meant a tax increase, because that's what it would be. But secondly, it is absolutely the case that there are people who would find that burdensome. I represent firefighters. I represent school supervisors. I'm not talking -- I mean, you know, it's different parts of the country. So you have to look at this across the board, and the numbers are staggering.
CLINTON: Now, when people say be specific, I listened very carefully to what Senator Obama said when he appeared on one of the Sunday morning shows, and he basically said that he was for looking at a lot of different things and using a bipartisan commission to do it. I think that's the right answer. That is where I have been from the very beginning.
CLINTON: That's what worked back in 1983, when we had a real crisis in Social Security. The government got together. President Reagan and Speaker Tip O'Neill put together a bipartisan commission. Then everybody looked at everything at once. It wasn't one person's idea or somebody else's idea. Everybody had to get in a room and say, here's what we're going to do to fix the problem. That's what I want to do because I think that's what will work for America. (Applause.)
OBAMA: That's --
DODD: Well, first of all, you want -- first of all, thanks for your question.
DODD: Well, obviously you want people here that are going to have a balanced sense of justice, to bring a life experience to that bench, where they're not just there as academics, that have a clear record in the judicial branch, where they either served as a judge or as a lawyer, where they've demonstrated that ability to be fair and just when it comes to the administration of laws of our country here.
DODD: I don't necessarily believe in applying litmus tests here. I think that's a dangerous precedent to begin that process here. You start down that path, others may follow. You end up with a court then that may lack that kind of balance.
DODD: Now, obviously as someone who's pro-choice and have been, entire public life and career, I feel very strongly about Roe versus Wade.
DODD: I would not want a justice to be appointed who would even think about overturning that. (Applause.)
DODD: But I want to be very careful here -- I want to be careful about making sure that I'd know the person, I'm not just looking at people I don't know or don't understand their background, so I have a very good feel of where they're going to be on these matters. (Inaudible) -- when they make the statement that they will uphold precedent, and they raise their right hand before the Judiciary Committee and make that commitment and then violate that commitment, that I find highly offensive. That will not happen in a Dodd administration, I promise you. (Applause.)
BIDEN: Suzanne's decided. I'm not answering her question. I'm answering the question of the woman who is there. Okay? (Cheers, applause.) And -- number one. And then I'll answer Suzanne's question.
BIDEN: Do you want me to answer your question?
BIDEN: I will answer both. I'll answer your question first. Your question first, is I've presided over more Supreme Court justices than anyone in American history, number one.
BIDEN: Number two, I have taken on those justices who in fact show no balance. They are ideologues. We have enough ideologues. We have enough professors on the bench. We have enough -- I want a someone who ran for dog catcher. I want someone -- (laughter) -- literally. Not a joke. When Hillary's husband asked me for his advice when he was appointing people, I wanted to go to people, and so did he. We couldn't -- four people turned it down.
BIDEN: We wanted to get someone who in fact had -- knew what it was like to live life, knew what it was as not some intellectual feat. (Applause.)
BIDEN: And by the way, the next person that's appointed on a Biden administration is going to be a woman. We don't have enough women on the bench, number one.
BIDEN: Number two, Suzanne Malveaux's question. I would not appoint anyone who did not understand that Section 5 of the 14th Amendment and the Liberty Clause of the 14th Amendment provided a right to privacy. That's the question I'd ask them. (Applause.) If that is answered correctly, that that is the case, then it answers the question, which means they would support Roe v. Wade. (Applause.)
RICHARDSON: I would have diversity as a prime criterion, but I would also ask my nominee -- this is what I would ask: Number one, do you believe Roe versus Wade is settled law? Number two, do you support the right to privacy? Number three, do you support civil rights? Number four, do you support -- (what you asked ?) -- education, school equalization?
RICHARDSON: If the answer is no to those questions that basically say is it settled law or not -- you want to call it a litmus test, fine -- those would be the judges that I would appoint for the Supreme Court. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: A Kucinich appointment to the Supreme Court would have a litmus test on abortion. It's a -- it's a question of a woman's right to choose and a right to privacy.
KUCINICH: But a president has to do more than that. A president has to be a healer, and this has been one of the great divides in our country. And so I want to also let the American people know that I'll stand for prenatal care, postnatal care, child care, a living wage, universal health care, sex education --
KUCINICH: -- birth control. We can make abortions less necessary if we have a healer in the White House, and we can also protect a woman's right to choose. We can do both. (Applause.)
CLINTON: (Cheers, applause.)
CLINTON: Senator Clinton, would this be a sine qua non for you, that any nominee you name to the Supreme Court would have to share your view on abortion?
CLINTON: Well, they'd have to share my view about privacy, and I think that goes hand in hand. Privacy, in my opinion, is embedded in our Constitution. What does it mean to have a right to free speech or the right to worship as you choose if you also don't have the right to be left alone, to have that privacy that goes with being an American? (Applause.) So it would be absolutely critical.
CLINTON: And I, like Senator Biden --
CLINTON: Yes, the answer is yes. And --
CLINTON: But I -- I just want to say, Senator Biden really deserves a lot of plaudits because he knows this issue forwards and backwards. And I think it's important to have a president who understands the intricate connections of our branches of government and the Constitution.
CLINTON: I think that's one of the great tragedies of George Bush's presidency is he didn't really understand the way our government was supposed to work. (Cheers, applause.)
OBAMA: I would not appoint somebody who doesn't believe in the right to privacy. But you're right, Wolf, I taught constitutional law for 10 years, and I -- when you look at what makes a great Supreme Court justice, it's not just the particular issue and how they rule, but it's their conception of the court. And part of the role of the court is that it is going to protect people who may be vulnerable in the political process, the outsider, the minority, those who are vulnerable, those who don't have a lot of clout. (Applause.)
OBAMA: And part of what I want to find in a Supreme Court justice -- and Joe's exactly right, sometimes we're only looking at academics or people who've been in the court. If we can find people who have life experience and they understand what it means to be on the outside, what it means to have the system not work for them, that's the kind of person I want on the Supreme Court. (Applause.)
EDWARDS: I would insist that they recognize the right to privacy and recognize Roe v. Wade as settled law. But I want to go beyond what some others have said here because it is so crucial if you grew up like I did in the segregated style and you saw how important it was to have federal judges who had some backbone and were willing to stand up against popular opinion -- but we had a judge who desegregated the public schools in North Carolina, in Charlotte, North Carolina.
EDWARDS: He literally had to have armed guards take him from home to work and home each day. That's the kind of courage and strength we need in a United States Supreme Court justice.
OBAMA: No, that's not what I said. What I said was I thought I could do it better. That's why I'm running for president. (Applause.) If I didn't think I could do it better then I wouldn't be running for president, because the stakes are too high, just as we heard.
OBAMA: Here's what I would do immediately. I would convene a continuous advisory meeting, with not just Democrats but Republicans, specifically on national security issues, because there is a long tradition that our differences in foreign policy should end at the water's edge.
OBAMA: And we have lost that tradition. And there are some wonderful Republicans -- Dick Lugar, Chuck Hagel -- there are a group of them who have continued that tradition, but we have lost it because of the polarization of the Bush administration.
OBAMA: So I want Republicans and Democrats and independents to understand that, as president, I am going to want to go before the entire world and say, America's back, we are ready to lead. But we're not just going to lead militarily; we're going to lead by building schools in the Middle East that teach math and science instead of hatred of Americans. We're going to lead by shutting down Guantanamo and restoring habeas corpus in this country so that we offer them an example. (Applause.)
OBAMA: We're going to lead by talking to our enemies and not just our friends.
OBAMA: And I believe that there are a lot of Republicans who hunger for that kind of bipartisan approach. That's what I will offer as president of the United States. (Cheers, applause.)
CLINTON: Well, I say that I am running to be the president of the entire country. You know, when I started running for the Senate in New York, I heard the same things.
CLINTON: And what I did was to reach out to Republicans, Democrats, independents, rural, urban because we've got to begin to work together. That's what I've tried to do in the Senate working across party lines, trying to find common ground; to go back to Chris, you know, working to get health care for Guard and Reservists with a colleague, a Republican colleague from South Carolina. You know, you have to look to find common ground, and it is the responsibility of a leader to try to make that possible.
CLINTON: Now, that doesn't mean there won't be differences because there are. We're not going to wake up the day after the election and not believe what we believe and not see the world as we see it, but we can certainly begin under presidential leadership to listen to one another, to look for those chances to find that common ground and work together. That's the kind of president I will be, and I will spend a lot of my time working with not just Republicans, but people who aren't in public life. We've got smart people all over this country who want to make a contribution, who want to give something back. Let's enlist the best that we have in America and start acting like Americans again to solve our problems and make a difference, Wolf. (Applause.)
BIDEN: Let me give you a direct answer to your question. I'd start by ending the war, and I've already gained the respect of my Republican colleagues; the only person that's gotten 75 votes in the United States Senate on a plan to end the war.
BIDEN: It's sitting in a drawer. It'll begin the day that I get elected.
BIDEN: Secondly, one of the ways you work in the House and the Senate is over time you gain respect. Find me a Republican on the other side that doesn't respect my judgment and doesn't think I tell them straight up the truth. I've worked with them. I've already done it. I would also include Republicans in my administration. Look, the basic premise you operate on, I reject. The vast majority of Republicans think this war stinks as well. The vast majority of Republicans out there think that our foreign policy is shambles. The vast majority of the Independents think that.
BIDEN: Folks, this is not going to be that hard. This is like not -- this isn't pushing the rope. They're sticking with George Bush out of loyalty, but I promise you I've already brought them along. I brought them along on Bosnia under the administration of Senator Clinton -- of President Clinton. I brought them along on the issue of dealing with arms control. I brought them along on the issue of the war in Iraq.
BIDEN: So folks, don't --
BIDEN: -- buy into this premise that Republicans -- average Republicans and Republican senators don't agree to this, they do. They're afraid to take on Bush. I will end that. I've already done it, and I would start with ending the war in Iraq with 75 senators -- (off mike). (Cheers, applause.)
RICHARDSON: Well, you know, tonight we've talked about Iran, we've talked about Iraq, we've talked about regimes that have not been friendly. I'd thrown in North Korea.
RICHARDSON: The cornerstone of my foreign policy would be diplomacy and negotiation.
RICHARDSON: We would be not the world's policemen but the world's conscience. All my life as an ambassador to the United Nations, as a special envoy, I've brought people together -- as a governor, bipartisan solutions, as a congressmen, as a secretary of Energy.
RICHARDSON: I'm going to answer your question specifically on the Middle East. Number one, I would have a Middle East peace envoy. This president's the only president that hasn't had one. I would base a Middle East settlement on a two-state solution: protection for the security of Israel and a Palestinian state.
RICHARDSON: I would also look at adjustments in the '67 borders. I would also look at dealing effectively and efficiently and fairly with the settlements issue, with Jerusalem. I would do something else. I would talk to Syria. I would talk to Iran.
RICHARDSON: It's all tied in a solution. It's called leadership and diplomacy. And to take these steps, you have to be bold. We're talking about electing a president that is going to need to repair the enormous damage of this administration in the last eight years.
CLINTON: Now, I know I'm sometimes accused of not being able to make a choice. I want both. (Laughter.)
