%
TANCREDO	R
PAUL	R
HUNTER	R
MCCAIN	R
%
TANCREDO: Hi. I'm Tom Tancredo. I'm a member of Congress, have been for 10 years. Thank you for letting me join you here this evening.
MCCAIN: I'm John McCain. I've had the honor of serving my country all of my life.
HUNTER: I'm Duncan Hunter, four years chairman of the Armed Services Committee and in Congress 26 years. And I stand for a strong national defense, an enforceable border, bringing back American jobs.
PAUL: I'm Ron Paul. I'm a congressman from Texas, serving in my 10th term. I am the champion of the Constitution.
MCCAIN: I did not read that particular document. I received hundreds of briefings, tens and hundreds of hours of study and background and information on it. And the fact is, that the sanctions were breaking down. The sanctions were not going to hold. We had a multi-billion-dollar scandal in the form of oil-for-food. The fact is that Saddam Hussein had used weapons of mass destruction before on his own people and on his enemies, and if he'd gotten them again, he'd have used them again. That was his commitment and his belief that he was going to, and he did the right thing. The problem was the mismanagement of the conflict.
MCCAIN: Well, let me say, first of all, I know how frustrated and saddened all Americans are. This morning I was with the family of Matthew Stanley of Wolfeboro, who sacrificed his life, and our hearts and our sympathy goes out to all those who have sacrificed their lives in this conflict.
MCCAIN: I, one, think this strategy needs to be given a chance to succeed. We haven't barely gotten the fifth brigade over there, which is part of this strategy. I am convinced that if we fail and we have to withdraw, they will follow us home. It will be a base for al Qaeda, and we will be facing greater challenges and greater sacrifices than that already made by Matthew Stanley and his family.
MCCAIN: There is no doubt in my mind that this will become a base for terrorism, there will be chaos in the region.
MCCAIN: And when Senator Clinton says this is Mr. Bush's war, that this is President Bush's war - when President Clinton was in power, I didn't say that Bosnia, our intervention there was President Clinton's war. When we intervened in Kosovo, I didn't say it was President Clinton's war.
MCCAIN: What he - what Senator Clinton doesn't understand, that presidents don't lose wars, political parties don't lose wars; nations lose wars and nations lose the - have the consequences of failure.
MCCAIN: We must succeed in this conflict.
MCCAIN: Then you have to examine the options. And I'll tell you the options. One is the division that Sam described. You would have to divide bedrooms in Baghdad, because Sunni and Shi'a are married to each other. You have 2 million Sunni and 4 million Shi'a living in Baghdad together.
MCCAIN: You would have to - you withdraw to the borders and watch genocide take place inside Baghdad. You watch the destabilization of Jordan. You see further jeopardy of Israel because of the threats of Hezbollah and Iranian hegemony in the region. All of the options I could run through with you; my friend, none of them are good. That's why we must succeed and give it a chance to succeed.
HUNTER: Well, Wolf, you know, I read that NIE report, and I held the briefings before we made the vote to go in. I'd invited everybody, Democrat and Republican, to get the classified information.
HUNTER: And this depends - the turnover of the security apparatus depends on one thing - reliable Iraqi forces. You got 129 Iraq battalions; we've trained them up. We've got a lot of them in the fight. Over the next three to four months, we need to get them all in the fight, get them that combat capability. When they're combat- hardened, we rotate them in, we displace American heavy combat forces off that battlefield, and Americans come home.
HUNTER: And, Wolf -
HUNTER: - I can tell you, as the chairman of the Armed Services Committee for the last four years, I have the credentials to leave Iraq the right way.
PAUL: The sooner we come home, the better. If they declare there's no progress in September, we should come home. It was a mistake to go, so it's a mistake to stay. If we made the wrong diagnosis, we should change the treatment. So we're not making progress there and we should come home. The weapons weren't there, and we went in under U.N. resolutions. And our national security was not threatened.
PAUL: We're more threatened now by staying. (Applause.)
TANCREDO: I'll tell you this: that if it comes to that point in time that you describe, that the surge - is apparent that it is not working - I did not support it. I hope to God it does work. I hope I'm wrong. I hope we pacify Iraq.
TANCREDO: However, if it is apparent that we cannot, then we have to do and tell the Iraqis the exact same thing that Benjamin Franklin said when he came out of the convention in 1787 and somebody said to him, "Dr. Franklin, what have you given us?" And he said, "A republic, if you can keep it." It is exactly that time and it is exactly that thing that we have to say to the Iraqi government. We have given you this. We bought it with our blood and sweat. It is now up to you to keep it.
TANCREDO: And I want the Iraqis to be in fact patrolling Baghdad. If they need vehicles, you let them have the vehicles. But I want them patrolling their city and putting their lives at risk.
TANCREDO: Then we move out.
HUNTER: With two conditions, and I think that you do have a dialogue with everybody, whether they're adversaries or friends. The two conditions are: number one, they are moving deadly equipment across the border that is killing Americans in Iraq. We have license to utilize anything that we want to use - special operations, intelligence, whatever it takes - to stop that deadly equipment from moving across the border and hitting Americans in Iraq, and we don't give that up with these talks.
HUNTER: Secondly, they've got about a thousand centrifuges now working, enriching the materials that can make at some point a nuclear device. The United States reserves the right to preempt, and we may have to preempt that nuclear weapons program. We cannot allow them to have a nuclear device.
HUNTER: With those two caveats, talk to your enemies.
HUNTER: I would authorize the use of tactical nuclear weapons if there was no other way to preempt those particular centrifuges. When the Osirak reactor that was hit `86, when the six F-18s came over the horizon and knocked that out, they didn't need anything but conventional weapons. Probably it's going to take a little more than that. I don't think it's going to take tactical nukes.
TANCREDO: Okay.
TANCREDO: They are incredible and they are disastrous. And that is exactly why I have said what I've said, and that is why I have consistently tried to impress upon the American public the seriousness of this issue. We're not just talking about the number of jobs that we may be losing, or the number of kids that are in our schools and impacting our school system, or the number of people that are abusing our hospital system and taking advantage of the welfare system in this country - we're not just talking about that. We're talking about something that goes to the very heart of this nation - whether or not we will actually survive as a nation. And here's what I mean by that.
TANCREDO: What we're doing here in this immigration battle is testing our willingness to actually hold together as a nation or split apart into a lot of Balkanized pieces. We are testing our willingness to actually hold on to something called the English language, something that is the glue that is supposed to hold us together as a nation. We are becoming a bilingual nation, and that is not good. And that is the fearful part of this. It has - the ramifications are much, much more significant than any that we've been discussing so far.
TANCREDO: And so yes, I have said dramatic things. And yes, I am willing to do what is ever (sic) necessary to try to stop this piece of legislation, and that includes go after any Republican that votes for it, because the Republicans can stop this.
MCCAIN: Well, first of all, I agree with Judd Gregg. He's a great senator. (Applause.)
MCCAIN: Second of all, Rudy you just described our legislation, so I'd be glad to have further conversation with you because it does account for people who are here illegally, it does have an employment verification system, and it weeds out those who shouldn't be here, and it gives others a chance to remain in this country.
MCCAIN: Look, this is a national security issue first and foremost. Ever since 9/11 it's a national security issue. People came to Fort Dix, New Jersey from across our Southern border and tried to kill our soldiers. For us to do nothing is silent and defacto amnesty. What we have done is what you expect us to do, my friends, and that's come together with the president of the United States, the leader of our party, Democrat and Republican, conservative Republicans like Jon Kyl, Johnny Isakson, Saxby Chambliss and Trent Lott, and sit down and figure out an approach to this problem.
MCCAIN: And it is a serious national security problem. We need to act, my friends, and if someone else has a better idea, I'd love to have them give it to us. (Cheers, applause.)
MCCAIN: That - that will get the support of enough people so that we can pass legislation. This isn't the bill that I would have written, but it does -
MCCAIN: - it does satisfy our national security challenges, which are severe and intense, and we can not allow 12 million people -
MCCAIN: - washing around America illegally, my friends. And I hope you'll examine the legislation -
MCCAIN: - and I hope we can move forward with it, and we can make it better.
MCCAIN: But it's our job to do the hard things, not the easy things. (Cheers, applause.)
HUNTER: Well, first, I disagree with that premise, because when they made the sweep on the Swift plants - those were the meat packaging plants in Iowa - took out some 850 people who were working there illegally several months ago, there were American citizens lined up the next day to get their jobs back at 18 bucks an hour.
HUNTER: Now - and let me tell you, this is a disastrous bill. And if John McCain is right in saying that this is a national security issue - and it is, border enforcement - then the Hunter bill, which was signed by the president on the 26th of October, mandating 854 miles of double fence - not that scraggly little fence you show on CNN all the time, Wolf, that people get across so easily - if they get across my fence, we sign them up for the Olympics immediately. (Laughter.) We've got a big fence.
HUNTER: But 854 miles of double border fence was mandated to be constructed. Homeland Security has a billion bucks, cash on hand. It's been six months, and they've done 11 miles.
HUNTER: So administration has a case of the slows. And I think they slowed the fence down so that they could come out with the amnesty at the same time, put the two together, and the Bush-McCain-Kennedy bill would then be accepted by conservatives and liberals alike.
HUNTER: It's a bad bill.
PAUL: I did.
PAUL: No. No, because that bill - probably the fence was my weakest reason for doing that, but for other reasons - to enforce the law - was important, and border security is important. And we've talked about amnesty, which I'm positively opposed to.
PAUL: But one thing that has not been mentioned here, which I think is very, very important - if you subsidize something, you get more of it. So - we subsidize illegal immigration, we reward it by easy citizenship, either birthright or amnesty.
PAUL: But we force our states and our local communities to pay for the health care and pay for the education. Why wouldn't they bring their families? And because of our economic conditions, we do need workers. But if we had a truly free market economy, the illegal immigrants would not be the scapegoat. We would probably need them and they would be acceptable, but because of economic conditions, they have become the scapegoat.
MCCAIN: (Laughs.) I think it's fine.
MCCAIN: I would like to remind you that we made treaties with Native Americans, such as the Navajos in my state, where we respect their sovereignty and they use their native language in their deliberations. It's not a big deal. But Native Americans are important to me in my state.
MCCAIN: Everybody knows that English has to be learned if anyone ever wants to move up the economic ladder. That is obvious. And part of our legislation, by the way, is a requirement to learn English.
MCCAIN: And by the way, 30 percent of the people who are in this country illegally never came across our borders, my friends. They overstayed their visas. That's why it has to be a comprehensive approach. And I'm proud of the support of the president and his brother, Governor Jeb Bush, who was governor of the state of Florida. People who have to deal with this issue every day understand we have to act, my friends. And we can have our own ways to improve it, but if we don't address this issue, we are going to pay a heavy price because something bad could happen when 12 million people are in this country illegally - two million of them having committed serious crimes. (Applause.)
MCCAIN: (Inaudible.)
HUNTER: Wolf, can I speak -
HUNTER: Wolf. (Off mike) -
HUNTER: - in my district. Can I speak up also?
MCCAIN: No, I believe that's up to the school districts. But I think that every American should be exposed to all theories. But I can't say it more eloquently than Pastor Huckabee - Governor Huckabee just did, and I admire his description, because I hold that view.
MCCAIN: The point is that the time before time - there's no doubt in my mind that the hand of God was in what we are today. And I do believe that we are unique, and I believe that God loves us. But I also believe that all of our children in school can be taught different views on different issues. But I leave the curricula up to the school boards.
PAUL: Well, I think we should read the First Amendment, where it says, "Congress shall write no law." And we should write a lot less laws regarding this matter. It shouldn't be a matter of the president or the Congress. It should be local people, local officials. The state should determine so many of these things that we just don't need more laws determining religious things or prayer in school. We should allow people at the local level.
PAUL: That's what the Constitution tells us. We don't need somebody in Washington telling us what we can do, because we don't have perfect knowledge. And that's the magnificence of our Constitution and our republic. We sort out the difficult problems at local levels and we don't have one case fit all, because you have a Supreme Court ruling like on Roe versus Wade; it (ruined ?) it for the whole country.
PAUL: And that's why we shouldn't have it at a central level.
MCCAIN: Sure, I think we all do. And they ought to be reinvesting it. And one of the areas that they ought to be involved in is nuclear power. Nuclear power is safe, nuclear power is green - does not green - emit greenhouse gases. Nuclear power is used on Navy ships which have sailed around the world for 60 years without an accident. And of course we ought to be investing in alternate energy sources.
MCCAIN: Recently there was a group of retired military officers who said that climate change an energy independence is a national security issue. It is. We've got to reduce our dependence on imported oil. We can do it through a wide variety of alternative fuels. But we have to be serious about it, and we're going to have to go places where we have never gone before. And nuclear power is one of the major issues, but also all kinds of ethanol as well, so.
PAUL: I don't think the profits is the issue. The profits are okay if they're legitimately earned in a free market.
PAUL: What I object to are subsidies to big corporations when we subsidize them and give them R&D money. I don't think that should be that way. They should take it out of the funds that they earn.
PAUL: But I'm also - you can't discuss energy without discussing our foreign policy. Why - why do we go to the Middle East? You know that oil is very important about the Middle East and why we're there. Why did we, our government, help overthrow Mossadeq in 1953? It had to do with oil. So our foreign policy is designed to protect our oil interests. The profits - that's not the problem. It's the problem that we succumb to the temptation to protect oil interests by literally going out and fighting wars over oil.
PAUL: I think the current policy is a decent policy. And the problem that we have with dealing with this subject is we see people as groups, as they belong to certain groups and that they derive their rights as belonging to groups. We don't get our rights because we're gays or women or minorities. We get our rights from our creator as individuals. So every individual should be treated the same way.
PAUL: So if there is homosexual behavior in the military that is disruptive, it should be dealt with. But if there's heterosexual sexual behavior that is disruptive, it should be dealt with. So it isn't the issue of homosexuality, it's the concept and the understanding of individual rights. If we understood that, we would not be dealing with this very important problem.
MCCAIN: We have the best-trained, most professional, best- equipped, most efficient, most wonderful military in the history of this country, and I'm proud of every one of them. (Applause.) There just aren't enough of them. So I have to rely on our military leadership, who - in whom we place the responsibility to lead these brave young Americans in combat as we speak.
MCCAIN: So I think it would be a terrific mistake to even reopen the issue. It is working, my friends. The policy is working. And I am convinced that that's the way we can maintain this greatest military. As much as revere the "Greatest Generation," as much as love my own generation, this is the very best. Let's not tamper with them.
TANCREDO: Thank you. Some time ago, 2003 I think it was, I got a call from Karl Rove who told me that because of my criticism of the president, I should never darken the doorstep of the White House. I have been so disappointed in the president in so many ways since his - actually for the last several years, not just the immigration issue, but several other things, including the No Child Left Behind and the massive increase in government that we call prescription drug - Medicare prescription drug, that I'm afraid I would have to tell the president of the United States - I mean as president, I would have to tell George Bush exactly the same thing Karl Rove told me.
HUNTER: You know, I think, Wolf, to make a determination on that, you'd have to look at the transcript. I'll tell you a couple transcripts I have looked it, and that's the agents, Compean and Ramos, who were given 11 and 12 years respectively for stopping a drug dealer bringing 750 pounds of drugs across the border. I've looked at their transcript; I would pardon Compean and Ramos right now.
HUNTER: And let me say - (interrupted by applause) - and let me say with respect to what Mike said, we got to bring back the Reagan Democrats to this party because we need the Reagan Democrats, Republican leadership to work, and we're going to have to get a good trade bill that brings jobs back to this country.
HUNTER: We're going to have to stop China from cheating on trade. Build the middle class, build jobs, Wolf. That's what strengthens the Republican Party.
PAUL: No.
HUNTER: No, not without reading the transcript.
MCCAIN: He's going through an appeal process. We've got to see what happens here.
TANCREDO: Yes.
HUNTER: Okay, absolutely. The key to leaving - and incidentally, thank you for his service. And I want to let you know - (interrupted by applause). I want you to know that my son, Duncan, the day after 9/11, joined the Marine Corps; quit his job, did two tours in Iraq. He's in Afghanistan right now.
HUNTER: First, I want you to know that it's worth it. (Applause.) What he did was worth it. And if we can achieve a country in Iraq that will not be a state sponsor of terrorism for the next five, to 10 to 20 years; that will be a friend, not an enemy of the United States; that will have a modicum of freedom, that is in the national interest of the United States, just like establishing a free Japan on the other side of the Pacific was in our interest after World War II, just like providing freedom and a protective shield for Salvador in Central America was in our interest.
HUNTER: So what I would do and what we need to do right now and we are doing is standing up the Iraqi army. There's 129 battalions of Iraqis that we've trained and equipped. We need to start moving them into the combat zones, where they displace the heavy American combat forces. Then we can pull our forces out, we can bring them home -
HUNTER: - or send them wherever Uncle Sam needs them again.
HUNTER: That's how we leave Iraq the right way.
MCCAIN: It's not, and I want to tell you, thank you for your brother's service and sacrifice to our country. We are proud of you and your endurance, and we're proud of your sacrifice.
MCCAIN: This war - I'm going to give you a little straight talk. This war was very badly mismanaged for a long time, and Americans have made great sacrifices, some of which were unnecessary because of this management of the - mismanagement of this conflict.
MCCAIN: I believe we have a fine general. I believe we have a strategy which can succeed, so that the sacrifice of your brother would not be in vain; that a whole 20 or 30 million people would have a chance to live a free life in an open society and practice their religion no matter what those differences are.
MCCAIN: And I believe if we fail, it will become a center of terrorism, and we will ask more young Americans to sacrifice, as your brother did.
MCCAIN: This is long and hard and tough, but I think we can succeed. And God bless you.
PAUL: Well, we've had four years to do this and it hasn't worked. The biggest incentive for them to take upon themselves the responsibility is just for us to leave. We don't need to lose 100 men and women every month, more than 1,000 per year. And so you want it done. You want them to take over. You've got to give them an incentive.
PAUL: So I think we should immediately stop patrolling the streets. That's a policeman's job. It's not the work of the Army. We're not fighting a military battle. We're in a different type of warfare right now. So the sooner we recognize that, the sooner we can make sure that no more Americans will die.
PAUL: We have a lot of goodness in this country and we should promote it, but never through the barrel of a gun. We should do it by setting good standards, motivating people, and have them want to emulate us. But you can't enforce our goodness like the neocons preach with an armed force. It doesn't work. Woodrow Wilson was telling us about that in promoting democracy a long time ago.
PAUL: It doesn't work, and we have to admit it.
TANCREDO: Yeah. The - I think that that's absolutely imperative, and I think so because frankly, you've got a conservative model to pick from. I mean, you know, Teddy Roosevelt after all put the stamp on that - the whole issue of conserving the environment, creating the national parks system. There is nothing anti- conservative about doing anything like that.
TANCREDO: And you know what else you can do in order to foster that, you do it through conservative principles. You make it profitable for people to do exactly that - to put - to make conservation an issue that is - it hurts people in the pocketbook, or they can profit by getting involved in conservation. That's one way the free market really works perfectly. We've seen it happen all over the world.
TANCREDO: We can see and we will put conservation to work - conservation practices to work in the United States through conservative principles. We have a lock on that.
HUNTER: And Wolf, the fabulous Grampy (sp), my father-in- law, who lives with us, is one of those people that trots down and goes through the border at Yuma and does that. So lots of Americans do that. But here's what happens. Eighty percent of the new drugs and new inventions that save our lives, that help preserve the lives of the relatives of everyone who's in this particular room right now, 80 percent of those inventions are made in the United States because we have free enterprise, where people can go out, invest, and maybe they drill three dry holes in trying to produce a good drug that will save somebody's life, then maybe they hit the jackpot and they produce something that will save people and help their health. They then recover their money in the United States, and what they have left over in terms of market, they put into the Third World. But Third World countries like Mexico could never provide the amount of money that it takes to make those inventions. Otherwise, they would.
HUNTER: Here's what we have to do. we need o be able to buy our health care insurance across state lines, Wolf. Right now the same single policy that can be purchased in Long Beach for $73 costs $334 in New Jersey. The states lock up the insurance industry. They won't let Americans buy across state lines just like they do everything else. If we're able to do that, we're going to bring down the cost of health insurance.
HUNTER: And Wolf, the fabulous Grampy, my father-in-law, who lives with us, is one of those people that trots down and goes through the border at Yuma and does that. So lots of Americans do that.
HUNTER: But here's what happens. Eighty percent of the new drugs and new inventions that save our lives, that help preserve the lives of the relatives of everyone who's in this particular room right now, 80 percent of those inventions are made in the United States because we have free enterprise, where people can go out, invest, and maybe they drill three dry holes in trying to produce a good drug that will save somebody's life, then maybe they hit the jackpot and they produce something that will save people and help their health.
HUNTER: They then recover their money in the United States, and what they have left over in terms of market, they put into the Third World. But Third World countries like Mexico could never provide the amount of money that it takes to make those inventions. Otherwise, they would.
HUNTER: Here's what we have to do. We need to be able to buy our health care insurance across state lines, Wolf. Right now the same single policy that can be purchased in Long Beach for $73 costs $334 in New Jersey. The states lock up the insurance industry. They won't let Americans buy across state lines just like they do everything else. If we're able to do that, we're going to bring down the cost of health insurance.
PAUL: I think it is the acceptance just recently that we now promote preemptive war. I do not believe that's part of the American tradition. We in the past have always declared war in the defense of our liberties or go to aid somebody, but now we have accepted the principle of preemptive war. We have rejected the just- war theory of Christianity. And now, tonight, we hear that we're not even willing to remove from the table a preemptive nuclear strike against a country that has done no harm to us directly and is no threat to our national security!
PAUL: I mean, we have to come to our senses about this issue of war and preemption and go back to traditions and our Constitution and defend our liberties and defend our rights, but not to think that we can change the world by force of arms and to start wars. (Applause.)
PAUL: MR.: That's not right. That's not right.
TANCREDO: Right. Yeah, exactly. No, I would not advertise in Spanish. Believe me when I tell you this, English - the preservation of the English language is important for us for a lot of reasons, not the least of which is because it is what holds us together. It is the glue that keeps a country together, any country. Bilingual countries don't work, and we should not encourage it.
TANCREDO: And even in the bill that Senator McCain is pushing, he says that he supports English-only - or official English. Doesn't go on to tell you, that of course he says that we're going to codify President Clinton's original plan, original executive order signed that said all papers produced by the government have to be in various languages. No, it is absolutely wrong. English is the language of this country, and you know what, we should not be ashamed of that. It's a good thing and it holds us all together regardless of where we come from -
TANCREDO: - regardless of our backgrounds, our histories, it doesn't matter. We need that thing to hold us together.
MCCAIN: Well, first of all, Governor, muchas gracias. (Laughter, applause.) We need to enforce our borders. There is indeed a special path, it's especially hard, it's eight to 13 years.
MCCAIN: My friends, we know what we're talking about is the latest wave of migrants into this country. We have to stop the illegal immigration, but we've had waves throughout our history. Hispanics is what we're talking about, a different culture, a different language, which has enriched my state where Spanish was spoken before English was.
MCCAIN: My friends, I want you the next time you're down in Washington, D.C. to go to the Vietnam War Memorial and look at the names engraved in black granite. You'll find a whole lot of Hispanic names. When you go to Iraq or Afghanistan today, you're going to see a whole lot of people who are of Hispanic background. You're even going to meet some of the few thousand that are still green card holders who are not even citizens of this country, who love this country so much that they're willing to risk their lives in its service in order to accelerate their path to citizenship and enjoy the bountiful, blessed nation.
MCCAIN: So let's from time to time remember that these are God's children. They must come into country legally, but they have enriched our culture and our nation as every generation of immigrants before them.
MCCAIN: Thank you. (Cheers, applause.)
MCCAIN: Spending, spending, spending, spending, which led to corruption. We have members - former members of Congress in jail as we speak because of this earmarking. We let spending get out of control, we presided over the largest increase in the size of government since the Great Society, and our constituents and our Republicans became dispirited and disenchanted. We've got to stop the earmarking. The bridge to nowhere, the 233 miles - a $233 million bridge to an island in Alaska with 50 people on it was the tipping point.
MCCAIN: I want to promise you, as president of the United States, I'll veto every bill that has a pork-barrel project on it, and I'll make the authors of it famous, and we'll get spending under control, and we'll stop the corruption in Washington. (Applause.)
TANCREDO: The biggest problem, I think, in this administration has been the fact that he ran - the president ran as a conservative and governed as a liberal.
TANCREDO: That is what has really been the basis, I think, of the distrust that has developed among the Republican base. It's well-founded. We have to do something about that.
PAUL: The president ran on a program of a humble foreign policy, no nation-building, and no policing of the world. And he changed his tune, and now we are fighting a war, and our foreign operations around the world to maintain our empire is now approaching $1 trillion a year.
PAUL: That's where the money's going, and that's where it has to be cut so we can take care of education and medical cares that are needed here in this country. (Applause.)
HUNTER: You know, Wolf, when my son returned from Fallujah, he wrote these words, he said, "Families lift our nation up. They provide us with fidelity, morality, faith in God, and raising the next generation of Americans."
HUNTER: The Republican party has to reunite with the American family and pass policies that are constant with the American family, then we'll be a great party again.
TANCREDO: It means, number one, cut from the past. If you come here as an immigrant, great. Welcome. If you come here legally, welcome. It means you cut your ties with the past, familial - especially political ties with the country from which you came.
TANCREDO: But let's be serious about this, you guys. We talk about all the immigration reform we want, and what it's got to get down to is this: Are we ready for a timeout? Are we actually ready to say, "Enough is enough"? We have to stop all legal immigration except for the - for people coming into this country as family members, immediate family members, and/or refugees. Are we willing to actually say that and say enough - is it - we have got to actually begin the process of assimilating people who have come in this great wave of immigration. The process of assimilation is not going on.
TANCREDO: And how long? How long will it take us for that - for us to catch up with the millions of people who have come here, both legally and illegally, and assimilate them? I'll tell you this. It'll take this long: until we no longer have to press 1 for English and 2 for any other language. (Applause.)
MCCAIN: It's beyond my realm of thinking. Look, America is the land of opportunity. The question was just asked, "What is it to be an American?" It's to share a common goal that all of us - a principle - are created equal and endowed by our creator with certain inalienable rights.
MCCAIN: That means we go as far as our ambition will take us. That means we have a better life for ourselves and our children. And the lady that holds her lamp beside the golden door is still the ideal and the dream. Of course it has to be legal. Of course it has to be regulated. And 18 months, by the way, will go by while we fix the border before we do anything else on this issue.
MCCAIN: But America is still the land of opportunity and it is a beacon of hope and liberty, and as Ronald Reagan said, a shining city on a hill. And we're not going to erect barriers and fences.
HUNTER: No. (Laughter.) And let me just say, you know, I look at Governor Romney, Mayor Giuliani, my good friend John McCain. Governor Romney joined with Bill Clinton for the 1994 gun ban when I was fighting that. Mayor Giuliani stood with him at the White House on that. Governor Romney has passed what I consider to be a major step toward socialism with respect to his mandated health care bill. John McCain is standing strong with Ted Kennedy on this Kennedy- McCain-Bush border enforcement bill.
HUNTER: I think the guy who's got the most influence right here with these three gentlemen is Ted Kennedy. And I think we need to move away from the Kennedy Wing of the Republican Party. (Applause.)
MCCAIN: Protect the family, that's one of the questions earlier. Protect our American family, it's under assault in many respects, as we all know. And second, take the lead in fighting this transcendent issue of our time: the battle and struggle against radical Islamic extremism. It is a force of evil that is within our shores. Look at the events of the last few days at JFK, attempts at Fort Dix, the London suicide bombers.
MCCAIN: My friends, this is a transcendent struggle between good and evil. Everything we stand for and believe in is at stake here. We can win. We will never surrender, they will. I am prepared to lead. My life and my experience and my background and my heroes inspire me and qualify me to lead in this titanic struggle which will not be over soon, but we will prevail.
