%
KUCINICH	D
GRAVEL	D
%
KUCINICH: I want to share the remarks of Barack Obama, because the fact of the matter is that racial inequality is real, that it affects every area of our lives, as the Covenant pointed out. Now, it's interesting the philosophy that's guiding leaders at every branch of -- in the executive and the judicial branch of government, because they go out and tell people, "Pull yourselves up by the -- by your bootstraps," and then they steal their boots. (Laughter.)
KUCINICH: We need to have a policy in education which first of all is guided by certain fundamental rights. Jesse Jackson, Jr., has a bill that makes having an equal opportunity for education a matter of a constitutional privilege. And with this Supreme Court ruling, it is imperative that we have a constitutional amendment guaranteeing educational opportunity equality. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: Next, in the meantime, universal free kindergarten. Every child age 3, 4 and 5 should have access to full, quality daycare. Eliminate those disparities that we see early on in school. Eliminate No Child Left Behind, which is aimed at testing instead of improving children's educational opportunity through language, music and the arts. (Applause.) And finally, we need to take the resources away from war and military buildups and assure that every child should have a chance for a quality college education as well.
KUCINICH: Thank you. (Cheers, applause.)
GRAVEL: First off, let me thank the organizers. This is the fairest debate or forum that we've had thus far this year.
GRAVEL: Let me add that racism was here with us at the beginning of this country. It was here in the last century, and it's going to be with us in the 21st century. And one of the areas that touches me the most and enrages me the most is our war on drugs that this country has been putting forth for the last generation.
GRAVEL: In 1972, we had 179,000 human beings in jail in this country; today, it's 2.3 million, and 70 percent are black, African-Americans. (Light applause.) And I hope my colleagues will join me in standing up and saying, like FDR did with Prohibition, "We'll do away with that." And FDR did it. And if I'm president, I will do away with the war on drugs, which does nothing but savage our inner cities and put our children at risk. (Applause.)
GRAVEL: There's no reason for this. There's not an American that doesn't understand the culture and the understanding that Prohibition was a failure, and so we repeat it again like we repeated Iraq after we had the failure of Vietnam. When will we learn? When we learn that the issue of drugs is a public health issue. Addiction is a public health issue, not a criminal issue where we throw people in jail and criminalize them to no advancement to the people -- (applause) -- and if there's one group of people in this country that needs to face up to that problem, and we have to face up to it, and that is the African American community. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: Dr. King recognized that when there's a war, people of two countries suffer, because what he was talking about was the link between war and fear and poverty, as opposed to peace and security and prosperity. And so when we shift the paradigm of this country away from war, then we start to have the resources which must be there for education, for universal pre-kindergarten, for fully-funded elementary and secondary education, for college for all. (Light applause.) But we have to remember that with a nation right now that will spend anywhere from 1 (trillion dollars) to $2 trillion on this war, that is money out of the educational lives of our children. We need to remember the connection. (Cheers, applause.) I'm ready to see at least a 15 percent reduction in that bloated Pentagon budget, stop funding war, start funding education. That's where we get the money.
KUCINICH: Thank you. (Cheers, applause.)
GRAVEL: Dennis, you're a little too modest on that. I think we can cut a little more than 15 percent, very much so. Stop and think what the opportunity costs -- now, you have heard these nostrums before. I've been watching your heads. You're nodding on all the programs. You've heard it 10 years ago, you've heard 20 years ago -- why doesn't it change? The Democratic Party hasn't done appreciably better than the Republican Party in solving these problems. It has to be solved the people, not by your leaders. (Applause.)
GRAVEL: Stop and think. When he's talking about the money we're squandering -- 21 million Americans could have a four-year college scholarship for the money we've squandered in Iraq -- (applause) -- 7.6 million teachers could have been hired last year if we weren't squandering this money. Now, how do you think we got into this problem? The people on this stage, like the rest of us, are all guilty and very guilty, and we should recognize that, because there is linkage! (Cheers, applause.)
KUCINICH: When you think about the statistics that have been cited here, you realize that it's time to get real about health care and education in America. We need to understand that the ability of our public schools to be able to communicate sex education as a priority at the early age helps children to understand the consequences of their action.
KUCINICH: But there's another dimension here, too, and that is we have a nation of such wealth, yet we have 46 million Americans without any health insurance, another 50 million underinsured. It's time for us to make every American know that they should have access. It is a basic right in a Democratic society. We should be able to fund all those diseases where people are suffering and they need care, but we have to end that for-profit medicine. It is time to take the for- profit insurance companies out of the business -- (applause) -- Michael Moore is right about this, by the way -- and have a not-for- profit health care where everyone's covered.
GRAVEL: I touched on it earlier. The scourge of our present society, particularly in the African-American community, is the war on drugs. I'll repeat again as a challenge to my colleagues on this stage, that if they really want to do something about the inner cities, if they really want to do something about what's happening to
GRAVEL: the health of the African-American community, it's time to end this war.
GRAVEL: There's no reason to continue it in the slightest. All it does is create criminals out of people who are not criminals.
GRAVEL: Education? Yes. Health care? Yes. But understand that the health care that we're talking about, by and large, is going backwards, going backwards. We're subsidizing the insurance companies. And all the plans that I've heard of, except Dennis's, is a continued subsidization of the insurance companies.
GRAVEL: Please, put pressure on these people to step up and end this war on drugs, which is ravishing your community. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: There's three questions involved here: What are we taxed? Who is paying? And how are our tax dollars spent? Right now we know that those who are in the highest brackets are not paying a fair share. We understand that. And we also understand that a lot of these corporations are taking their business offshore so they can offshore their profits and escape paying tens of billions of dollars in taxation. And we also know that our tax dollars right now are being spent overwhelmingly on war and military buildup. I want to see a new direction. (Applause.) I want to see the wealthy pay their fair sure. I want to make sure that these corporations have to -- if they have an American name, they have to pay taxes here, and I want to see the end of war as an instrument of policy.
GRAVEL: I want to say that none of you are going to live in your lifetime to see our system of taxation change, based upon what you've heard here. I was -- (laughter) -- I was eight years on the Finance Committee -- none of them have served on that committee -- and I'll tell you, the code stands that high and there's not a human being alive that understands it.
GRAVEL: And it's with Democrats, with Republicans, they take care of the people. Do you think it's accident that all of a sudden we wake up, that the wealthy aren't paying a fair share? The only way they're going to pay a fair share is wipe out the income tax -- it is corrupt, it's corrupting our society -- (applause) -- and begin to put in place a tax that everybody will know what everybody's paying, and that's a retail sales tax. And you can make it as progressive as you want. Keep in mind, a tax where everybody will know what everybody is paying.
GRAVEL: You won't see it with this.
KUCINICH: As president, I'll have an attorney general who's going to be sensitive to the very issues that you raised. First of all, we need to seek to end mandatory minimums. (Applause.) We know who's serving those mandatory minimums. Second, we need to have the emphasis, with respect to drug offenses, on rehabilitation, not incarceration. And third, as president, I'll do anything I can to end the federal death penalty, which I've already introduced legislation for in the past. (Applause.) Because we need to have an approach that recognizes the discrimination which exists in our justice system.
KUCINICH: Thank you.
GRAVEL: Is it a surprise to anybody in this room that if you don't have any money, you don't get any justice? (Laughter.) Is that a surprise to you all? (Applause.) My gracious, the only way you're going to get justice is to turn around and empower yourselves to become lawmakers so you can change the system, and there's no thought of really changing the system today. It's politics as usual. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: Absolutely. What happened in New Orleans in the aftermath and how it was dealt with underscores everything that's wrong in this country about race.
KUCINICH: First of all, New Orleans wouldn't have happened if the government had been more sensitive to make sure that those levees had been repaired when they were told they were supposed to be repaired. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: Secondly -- secondly, New Orleans represents a hope also, because we have to make sure people have a chance to return, and they should be guaranteed that. They should also be guaranteed jobs.
KUCINICH: I held a hearing yesterday in my Domestic Policy Subcommittee, which shows that people in New Orleans aren't getting jobs. They're hiring people from outside, and sometimes when they get jobs, they aren't being paid.
KUCINICH: We've got to change that. We must change it.
GRAVEL: The answer to the question is yes. And just keep in mind, if we weren't squandering our treasure on this terrible war that we didn't have to start, we would have 4 million housing units available, and a good portion of them could go to Katrina residents. (Applause.)
GRAVEL: No, outsourcing is not the problem. What is the problem is our trade agreements that we have that benefit the management and, of course, the shareholders, and have neglected on either side of the issue, whether it's in Mexico or in other countries or the United States. That's the problem that must be addressed.
GRAVEL: So, no, it's not outsourcing. But I would add to it, it's the way all of these people want to finance health care, on the backs of businesses, that make them uncompetitive in the world. That's part of the problem. And our system of taxation is also part of the problem because it makes us uncompetitive in the world.
KUCINICH: I've stood behind plant gates that were locked, where grass was growing in the parking lots, where they used to make steel, they used to make bicycles, washing machines. And now there's grass growing in the parking lots.
KUCINICH: I know what the solution is, and you do, too, and I want to challenge my fellow candidates.
KUCINICH: One of my first acts in office will be to cancel NAFTA and the WTO -- (applause) -- and go back to trade conditions on workers' rights, human rights and environmental quality principles. That's what we must do. A Democratic administration started NAFTA. A Democratic administration will end it. (Applause.)
KUCINICH: It's time for the United States to stop looking at Africa as a place where our corporations can exploit the people and -- (cheers, applause) -- I mean, because let's face it, let's -- let's face it, if Darfur had a large supply of oil, this administration would be occupying it right now.
KUCINICH: We need to -- (cheers, applause) -- we need to stop --
KUCINICH: -- we need to stop giving Sudan a pass. They're looking the other way --
GRAVEL: It's very simple. If we have a president, he has to have moral judgment.
GRAVEL: What? No mike? You can't hear me?
GRAVEL: You can hear me now? We have to have a president who has moral judgment. Most of the people on this stage with me do not have that judgment, and have proven it by the simple fact of what they've done. (Laughter.)
