%
JINDAL	R
PATAKI	R
SANTORUM	R
GRAHAM	R
%
JINDAL: I think the reason voters are so frustrated is nothing seems to change in D.C. Look, over the next several hours, you're going to hear several Republicans all tell you they want to shrink the size of government and grow the American economy and it sounds great and we've got to do it.
JINDAL: Here's the truth — of all these folks talking, I'm the only one that has cut the size of government. There's not two of us, there's one of us. The rest of it is all just hot air. When politicians talk, we need to pay attention to what they do, not what they say.
JINDAL: I'm the only one that's reduced the size of government. Let's shrink the government economy. Let's grow the American economy.
SANTORUM: Yes, I think it's one thing to shrink the size of a state government but it's another thing to actually get something accomplished in Washington. It's a much tougher field.
SANTORUM: And I'm the one in the — on this stage and, frankly, on both stages that has actually gone to Washington, said we would shrink government, said we would shake things up and actually delivered for the conservative cause, everything from welfare reform, which was the largest, most significant accomplishment in the last 25 years for conservatism.
SANTORUM: I authored the bill when I was in the House of Representatives; I managed the bill on the floor of the United States Senate. You need a conservative who can deliver and that's what I bring to the table.
PATAKI: We need an outsider to run our party and to win the next election. Washington has become a corrupt insider game and everybody talks about how they're going to change the taxes, grow the economy. Nothing seems to change.
PATAKI: But, by the way, Bobby, I shrunk the size of New York State's government when I left. We had reduced the employment by over 25,000 and cut taxes.
PATAKI: But I understand that to change Washington you have to understand government as well. You can't just be an outsider. You can't just be someone who throws stones at Washington. You have to be someone who can actually bring people together across party lines.
PATAKI: I can do that, I will do that if I have the chance to lead this party.
GRAHAM: 
GRAHAM: Well, number one, thank you for having me here tonight.
GRAHAM: How about a round of applause for Boulder, Colorado?
GRAHAM: This is a beautiful place. [applause]
GRAHAM: Looking at their academic standards, the only way I could have gotten into this university is to be invited to this debate tonight. [laughter]
GRAHAM: But here's my take on things. Without national security, there is no economic security. Without the sacrifice of the veteran, all of our hopes and dreams are at risk.
GRAHAM: Just a few days ago, Hillary Clinton said that the problems with the V.A. are being exaggerated by Republicans. They are not, they are real.
JINDAL: Well, look, I think that's a false choice. I think this is a very bad deal. Whenever they tell us in D.C. they're going to cut tomorrow, that means they're never going to cut. Tomorrow never seems to happen. Instead, why don't we actually follow our conservative principles? Why not insist on structural reforms? Why not cut spending?
JINDAL: I don't mean strength (ph) the growth rate, I mean, actually spend less. Why not a balanced budget in the amendment — an amendment to the Constitution? Why not a super-majority vote before they grow our taxes, before they grow the government faster than the economy?
JINDAL: Let's be honest, $18 trillion dollars of debt. Record low participation rate in the workforce, record number of Americans on food stamps. We are going the way of Europe. The left is trying to turn the American Dream into the European Nightmare. If you're a Republican...
JINDAL: ...[inaudible] willing to stand up and fight...
JINDAL: I think that's a false choice. If I were — I were to lead, we would pass a conservative budget, challenge the President to do the right thing. And, here's the problem, the Republicans never want to fight. Give Pelosi and Reed credit, they forced Obamacare and socialism down our throats, why won't the Republicans fight half as hard for freedom and opportunity. This was a bad budget.
PATAKI: Becky, can I comment on this question?
GRAHAM: Well, let me tell you what is real. The threat to our homeland. I've never seen so many threats to our homeland than I do today. Barack Obama is an incompetent Commander in Chief. There are more terrorist organizations with safe havens to attack the American homeland than anytime since 9/11. We're in the process of reducing our defense spending by half.
GRAHAM: I am looking at this budget with one view in mind, will it restore the ability to defend this nation. We're on track to have the smallest army since 1940, the smallest navy since 1915, this budget, if it is paid for, will put $40 billion dollars back in the defense department at a time we need it.
GRAHAM: The number one role of the federal government's to defend this nation, I intend to be a Commander in Chief that can win a war we cannot afford to lose.
PATAKI: ...John, can I quickly comment on this one...
PATAKI: [crosstalk]
PATAKI: ...But, I want to speak on this issue...
SANTORUM: Well, if you look at my flat tax, it actually takes the best of what Steve Forbes, Art Laffer, many have been advocating for a long time, which is a very strong pro-growth tax code — very simple. And, it adjusts it to make sure that it is not regressive.
SANTORUM: We have a $2,750 per person tax credit — that's $2,750 off the taxes due, not a deduction, a credit. And, we think — in fact, if you run the numbers, no American who's going to be paying more taxes under our proposal, so, we've accomplished both.
SANTORUM: We have a system that has a low single rate, but we take care of American families. I'm talking about $2,750 per person. That means a family four, that's $11,000 dollar tax credit. That's a very, very strong pro-family — and if you looked at the Wall Street Journal today, and so many of the publications that have been out there, they've talked about how the biggest problem of the hollowing out of the middle of this country. For workers to be able to raise is actually, the breakdown of the American family.
SANTORUM: William Galston, a liberal, said that on the pages of the Wall Street Journal today that the key to poverty is families. So, we put forth a pro-growth — Steve Forbes plan, combined it with a pro- family plan, and that's why I think it's going to work out, and work effectively.
PATAKI: ...I think it was a bad deal, but I would have voted for it for a very simple reason. Barack Obama is the first president in American history to hold our military hostage. He knew that we needed funding for overseas contingency operations, $40 million dollars that would go to support our troops. And, he was prepared, and had vetoed it, unless this deal went through.
PATAKI: I have two sons, they both served overseas. One in Iraq, and one in Afghanistan, and I understand that we have got to do far more to help our military, help our veterans, and help protect our security. This is a bad deal, but to protect our military, I would have signed it. Uh, it's not going to be the case, if I have a chance to lead this country, we're going to reduce the deficit, shrink the government, lower the tax burden and grow the private sector because that's how you solve deficits.
PATAKI: Thank you.
JINDAL: Absolutely, Jhon. And what we did is we cut state spending. We've cut our budget 26 percent, according to Cato and other analysis, the only candidate that's actually reduced government spending.
JINDAL: Look, the left always complains there's not enough money for government. We have 30,000 fewer state employees than the day I took office, eight credit upgrades, we're a top 10 state for private sector job creation.
JINDAL: We've got a choice. You grow the government economy or the American economy. When I became governor, we had 25 years in a row of outmigration. We were coming back from Katrina. The question many were asking, will Louisiana rebuild, should Louisiana rebuild?
JINDAL: Seven years in a row, more people moving into the state than were leaving the state.
JINDAL: We now have more people working than ever before, erg a higher income than ever before.
JINDAL: Yes, we've reduced the size of government. That's exactly what we need to do in DC. In DC, the Republicans slowed the growth rate, they claimed victory. That's not enough.
JINDAL: Let's be honest with where we are today. We are running off of a cliff. Look, we'll be the next Greece and we can talk and we can rearrange the chairs. Over over $18 trillion of debt, no wonder our economy has been stagnant. We haven't had real growth.
JINDAL: If you're a young student here, you've not seen a robust American economy.
JINDAL: Well, Jhon, a couple of things.
JINDAL: Not only did we not raise taxes, we did the largest income tax cut in the state's history. And I'm proud of that record. I think that's the kind of leadership voters want in DC.
JINDAL: Look, if you want a Republican that's going go grow government spending, if you want a — a president or if you want a candidate who's going to income taxes, I'm not your guy.
JINDAL: If you want somebody that's going to do and say the things that can't be said, can't be done, I'm asking a vote for me to join my cause. That's how dangerous these times are. This is — this is a — this is — these are dangerous times for America. I think we have a chance to rescue the idea of America, but if we don't do it now, four years will be too late from now.
JINDAL: So, yes, I'm proud we cut taxes, we cut spending, 30,000 fewer state government bureaucrats than the day I took office. I absolutely will do that in DC.
JINDAL: Thank you.
PATAKI: No, I don't think we need a military response, but we need a coordinated response. And I have to say that I think the Obama administration has been completely lax, to say the least, in dealing with these cyber-attacks, not just by governments like North Korea, but by, particularly, Chinese and other companies.
PATAKI: And what I would do is put in place a policy where if we know a company, say, a Chinese company, is hacking into American companies, stealing trade secrets, as we know they do every day, we will retaliate against that company and say that that company's not going to be allowed to continue to do trade with the United States.
PATAKI: I would also look at what we're doing at the federal level and put in place what Israel has done: a — one federal agency dealing with cybersecurity and charged with working across silos to make sure we have the best technology.
PATAKI: And, Jim, I've gotta tell you something, talking about cybersecurity. Hillary Clinton put a server, an unsecure server, in her home as secretary of state. We have no doubt that that was hacked, and that state secrets are out there to the Iranians, the Russians, the Chinese and others.
PATAKI: That alone should disqualify her from being president of the United States. [applause]
GRAHAM: Here's the problem. We're being walked all over because our commander in chief is weak in the eyes of our enemies. Do you think Putin would be in the Ukraine today if Ronald Reagan were president? Why are the Chinese stealing our intellectual property, hacking into our system? Why are they building islands over resource-rich waters? Because they can get away with it.
GRAHAM: At the end of the day, ladies and gentlemen, the foreign policy of Barack Obama needs to be replaced, and the last person you want to find to replace his foreign policy is his secretary of state.
GRAHAM: So to the Chinese, when it comes to dealing with me, you've got a clenched fist or an open hand. You pick. The party's over, to all the dictators. Make me commander-in-chief and this crap stops. [applause]
SANTORUM: We know that a troubling amount of air pollution on the west coast comes from China. Should we enact a pollution tax on products imported from China and give our manufacturers a level playing field?
SANTORUM: What we should be — we shouldn't be putting tariffs on anything. That hurts working men and women in this country. What we should be doing is making our manufacturing more competitive.
SANTORUM: One of the reasons I introduced the 20/20 plan, a 20 percent flat tax on corporations, as well as on individuals, is so we can be competitive, so we can bring those manufacturing jobs back.
SANTORUM: You want to talk about cutting pollution? You do a little back- of-the-envelope. We — we produce, per dollar of GDP, about one-fifth of the CO2 and other pollutants that China produces. So we're five times more efficient in producing goods here, as far as the environment — environment is concerned.
SANTORUM: Why don't we — if we really want to tackle environmental problems, global warming, what we need to do is take those jobs from China and bring them back here to the United States, employ workers in this country.
SANTORUM: We've lost two million jobs — two million jobs — under this administration in manufacturing — 15,000 manufacturers have left this country. Why? Because of bad tax policy, bad regulatory policy and, yes, bad trade policy.
SANTORUM: We need to have a president that's going to pledge, as I have — I'm going to make America the number-one manufacturer so working men and women can have good paying jobs again in America.
JINDAL: Absolutely, John. I'd go further. My tax plan, like everybody's, like a lot of Republicans' — look, I'd get rid of the death penalty and the marriage penalty, and I'd simplify the brackets to 25 percent, 10 percent, 2 percent, so that an average middle-class family — a teacher marries a law enforcement official (ph)...
JINDAL: ...I — I'm gonna get that. Pays 25 percent today, would pay 10 percent under my plan. But my plan does three things different from other people's plans.
JINDAL: One — remember, I said 2 percent. I think everybody should pay something, even if it's only 2 percent. That's the most important 2 percent in my plan.
JINDAL: I know a lot of Republicans brag — y'all can clap, it doesn't scare me. Go ahead. I heard some people.
JINDAL: There are millions of — there are millions of folks that wouldn't pay taxes in Jeb's plan and Trump's plan. I think that's a mistake.
JINDAL: In terms of the corporate tax, secondly, I'd get rid of the corporate tax. We do have the highest corporate tax rate in the developed world. I'd get rid of it. I'd get rid of all the corporate welfare. Make the CEOs pay their same tax rates the way the rest of us do.
JINDAL: And third, I'd purposely shrink the size of government. You know, that is a — that is an intentional feature of my plan. We've got a choice: do we grow government — the government economy, or the American economy?
JINDAL: So I say get rid of the corporate tax, bring those jobs and investment here to the United States, stop sending jobs and investment overseas.
PATAKI: I think they have gone too far. I think we've seen Wall Street really blossom and do very well while the rest of the country is struggling, and it's because we have this corrupt connection between Wall Street and Washington.
PATAKI: And, John, you were just talking about what loopholes would you get rid of. I would get rid of virtually every single one of them. They cost American taxpayers $1.4 trillion a year. I would throw them all out.
PATAKI: No, I wouldn't. I was going to say...
PATAKI: ...no, I would keep — first, yes, but what I would do is ii would lower the tax on manufacturing to the lowest in the developed world — 12 percent.
PATAKI: We all have plans. I have a plan. We all have plans. My plan, the Tax Foundation said, would create five and a half million new jobs over the next decade.
PATAKI: The difference, though, is I will get my plan enacted because, when I was governor of New York, I passed sweeping tax code — cuts in a Democratic state with a Democratic legislature.
PATAKI: I — you know, Bobby, you're talking about your tax cuts? I cut taxes more than everybody on this stage, more than everybody on the next stage, combined. By more than the other 49 states, in New York state.
PATAKI: I don't just have a plan. I will enact tax cuts, get rid of those loopholes and make the system fairer for all Americans.
PATAKI: Thank you.
GRAHAM: No, I — I think I'm trying to solve problems that somebody had better solve.
GRAHAM: Now, you don't have to believe that climate change is real. I have been to the Antarctic. I've been to Alaska. I'm not a scientist, and I've got the grades to prove it. [laughter]
GRAHAM: But I've talked to the climatologists of the world, and 90 percent of them are telling me that greenhouse gas effect is real. That we're heating up the planet. I just want a solution that would be good for the economy, that doesn't destroy it.
GRAHAM: I want to fix an immigration system. I'm not gonna tell you, if you like your doctor, you can keep it — keep him. Do you like your health care, you're gonna keep it. I'm tired of telling people things that they want to hear, that we know we're not gonna do.
GRAHAM: We're not gonna eliminate the corporate tax. But we can make it lower. We're going to fix immigration, only if we work together. I want to secure the border because, if we don't, we're going to get hurt and hit again.
GRAHAM: I want to fix a broken visa system. I want to increase legal immigration, because we're gonna have a shortage of workers over time. As to the 11 million, I want to talk about fixing the problem. We're not going to deport 11 million people and their legal citizen children.
GRAHAM: But we will deport felons. And those who stay will have to learn our language to stay, because I don't speak it well but look how far I've come.
GRAHAM: [crosstalk]
GRAHAM: At the end of the day, folks, I am trying to solve a problem and win an election. I am tired of losing.
GRAHAM: Good God, look who we're running against. The number one candidate on the other side thought she was flat broke after her and her husband were in the White House for eight years. The number two guy went to the Soviet Union on his honeymoon and I don't think he ever came back. [laughter]
GRAHAM: If we don't beat these people, who the hell are we going to beat?
GRAHAM: [crosstalk]
SANTORUM: — with competition...
SANTORUM: — for low wage workers.
SANTORUM: [inaudible] and I...
GRAHAM: The first thing...
GRAHAM: — that we have to do is come to grips with the reality that we're facing as Americans. In 1950, there were 16 workers for every Social Security recipient. Today, there's three. In 20 years, there are two.
GRAHAM: I want to make sure that no American company leaves America because you can't find a worker.
GRAHAM: American workers always get the first preference. But if you can't find an American worker, after you advertise at a competitive wage, I don't want you to be at a loss. Bring people in based on merit. Let's take a broken immigration...
GRAHAM: — system...
GRAHAM: — and make a merit-based immigration system that will help our economy. We're going to need workers in the future.
GRAHAM: Let's just choose rationally.
PATAKI: Let me — let me try to get a word in edgewise.
SANTORUM: That's not what's happening.
PATAKI: In Washington, they talk over each other...
PATAKI: Yes. Very simply, you guys talk over each other in Washington all the time. I'm not used to that. I listen when people talk.
PATAKI: We have a skills gap. You mentioned the construction company. The construction industry says one of their biggest problems are they can't find the craftsmen to do the work.
PATAKI: What we have to...
PATAKI: [crosstalk]
PATAKI: — do in America is honor blue collar work again. We have to honor the carpenter, the plumber, the electrician, who can actually build something and instead of just saying that a college degree live — delivers prestige, let's celebrate those who do things with their hands and elevate their skills using training in high school and community...
PATAKI: — colleges so that we can...
PATAKI: — have a better quality workforce that we honor...
PATAKI: — as they build America's future.
PATAKI: Thank you.
PATAKI: Thank you.
JINDAL: Look, I think the government should work to change that, but that doesn't — does not mean I'm for the government mandating that.
JINDAL: We already have too many government mandates out of DC.
JINDAL: Do I want people to have paid leave?
GRAHAM: We owe to every businessperson and worker in America the best environment in the world to create a job. We owe that to American businesses. Thirty-five percent corporate tax rate is the second highest in the world.
GRAHAM: We need to lower it so they don't leave. The goal is to help the middle class. We can talk about corporations all day long but my goal is to help the middle class, somebody who makes too much to be on government assistance but still lives paycheck to paycheck.
GRAHAM: When the kid gets sick you don't go on vacation.
GRAHAM: [crosstalk]
GRAHAM: That's the purpose of my presidency, to grow the economy here. And let me tell you, our Democratic friends have a list a mile long of more government. That's not going to grow the middle class, that's going to create a burden on your children, which they're already overburdened. The best way to grow the middle class is to make it a good place to create a job.
GRAHAM: You know why Boeing came to South Carolina when they could have gone anywhere to build the 787?
GRAHAM: Because we wanted them. We had a low-tax structure.
GRAHAM: A permitting structure that allowed them to build the building even faster than they thought they could build it. We welcomed them there. I'm going to take the South Carolina attitude —
GRAHAM: I think everybody owes an obligation to the country. The ones that I'm most worried about are the 1 percent of Americans in uniform, who have been fighting this war for 14 years. They need a commander in chief who knows what the hell they're doing.
GRAHAM: My first job as President of the United States is to rebuild the military and use it smartly. Admiral Mullen said the debt is a big threat to our national security. He's right. But people go where they're welcome when it comes to job creation.
GRAHAM: If I'm President of the United States you will be welcomed in America.
GRAHAM: This will be the place to come —
GRAHAM: And if I'm president of the United States —
GRAHAM: — our enemies —
PATAKI: 
PATAKI: Hey, Rick.
PATAKI: I'm doing great.
PATAKI: Not at all.
PATAKI: No, I don't support it. But let me go back a little bit here. We need to grow our economy faster. We've had the worst economic recovery since the Great Depression. And it's because of policy in Washington and policy at the Fed.
PATAKI: And let me go back to Washington. In 2009 —
PATAKI: John, no question Barack Obama inherited a economic disaster in 2009.
PATAKI: But what did he do?
PATAKI: Instead of focusing on pro-growth policies in the economy, he rammed through ObamaCare, the worst law of my lifetime, that hurt small businesses, hurt companies, raised taxes and almost completely eliminated one industry because of its taxes.
PATAKI: The Fed had to act. And the Fed did act and appropriately in reducing interest rates but they've reduced them now for seven straight years, that's never happened before. They've been zero for way too long.
PATAKI: They should raise the rates; the Fed should get out of manipulating the market and the Fed also, by the way, should reduce its balance sheet, $2.7 trillion. Let some of those bonds mature and put the money back in the banking system so our economy can grow.
SANTORUM: A true conservative wants to create a level playing field. That's what — that's what we're — that's what government is supposed to do. They're not supposed to favor one group over another.
SANTORUM: And when it comes to our manufacturers, the level playing field is not in the United States. It's international. And so the federal government should have laws, tax laws, regulatory laws and, yes, finance laws. There's 60 other ex-im banks all over — all over the world.
SANTORUM: Every major competitor for the United States' manufacturing dollar has one of those banks.
SANTORUM: And guess what? They use those banks a heck of a lot more than their — than the United States of America does, number one.
SANTORUM: So in order to have a level playing field, which is what conservatives talk about all the time, level playing field, then we have to have export financing and here's why.Because export financing doesn't help Boeing, or G.E.
SANTORUM: G.E. just lost a contract, you know what they did? They went to . They got the X.M. (ph) bank in France to support it, and what did they do? They moved manufacturing out of South Carolina, out of Texas, moved to — Hungary, and to France. G.E. is still making money. G.E. is still doing well, but American workers are out of jobs. That's why we have to have this level playing field so we can compete with the rest of the world.
SANTORUM: Well, first, since you mention Colorado, I want to thank the people of Colorado because four years ago you — gave me the honor of winning the nomination out here in the state of Colorado. On a night we won three states, and it catapulted us to win 11 states ultimately, so, I just want to thank you very, very much for that support, and — in response to that, I do drink a lot of Coors beer, so...[laughter]
SANTORUM: I try to help. The answer is pretty simple. The answer is simple. There are no shortage of breweries around the United States of America. I — I do — as I travel around the country, I do pints and politics, and I go to breweries all over the place, and there — there's almost no town in America anymore that doesn't have a brewery, so I don't think we need to worry too much.
SANTORUM: They're obviously — if there's — if there's some anti- competitive issues, you know, we have agencies to look at that. But, no, I'm not — I'm not concerned that Americans are not going to have choices in beer.
SANTORUM: And I care about, by the way. I care about choices.
SANTORUM: Well, I — I would say this, that what you're seeing is — in health care, you're seeing a lot of consolidation, and that consolidation is occurring because of Obamacare.
SANTORUM: You're seeing it particularly in an area that I am concerned about, and that's in insurance — health insurance. You're seeing the big health insurance companies fold up.
SANTORUM: You've seen Obama try to seed health insurance companies, and they've all failed, I think, except one. Why? Because we have a system of Obamacare with minimum loss ratios that make it virtually impossible for a small insurer to operate effectively.
SANTORUM: And this was the motive behind Obamacare. This wasn't incidental. This was deliberate, to make it so impossible for small insurers to survive...
SANTORUM: ...that they consolidate into a small group. Then the left can say, "there is no competition, we need a single payer." That's why we have to repeal Obamacare. [applause]
JINDAL: A couple things. You're talking about payroll taxes that fund programs. People pay for their Medicare, they pay for their Social Security.
JINDAL: I want every American to worry and care about how those folks in D.C. are spending our money. If $18 trillion of debt — they're misspending our money. Earned success is so much more fulfilling than unearned success.
JINDAL: I don't want us to continue to create one class of Americans that pays income taxes, that pays for government, another class of Americans that's growing more and more dependent on government.
JINDAL: That's what we have today. Socialism is bad, not only for taxpayers, but people that they say they're trying to help. There's dignity in work, dignity in self-sufficiency.
JINDAL: I wanna quote you a president. Our previous president said this: he said, "the problem is, is that tax rates are too high, government income revenues are too low."
JINDAL: He said, "paradoxically, lowering tax rates now is the best way to produce higher government revenues later." No, that wasn't President Reagan, as many are probably guessing at home. That was President Kennedy.
JINDAL: I see you know the answer. That was President Kennedy. Imagine if he were alive today — and if he was at that last Democratic debate, imagine if you tried to say that in a party that's veering towards socialism. That wouldn't be welcome in today's Democratic party.
PATAKI: Yeah, absolutely. I — one of the things that troubles me about the Republican Party is too often we question science that everyone accepts. I mean, it's ridiculous that, in the 21st century, we're questioning whether or not vaccines are the appropriate way to go. Of course they are. And it's also not appropriate to think that human activity, putting CO2 into the atmosphere, doesn't make the earth warmer. All things being equal, it does. It's uncontroverted.
PATAKI: I think part of the problem is that Republicans think about climate change, say, "oh my God, we're gonna have higher taxes, more Obama, more big government, the EPA shutting down factories."
PATAKI: That's not the solution that I see. I want Republicans to embrace innovation and technology. You know, there's one country in the world that has fewer greenhouse gas emissions than the rest of — of the world. You know what that is? The United States.
PATAKI: Our emissions are lower than they were in 1995. Not because of a — of a government program, but because of fracking, private sector creation...
PATAKI: [crosstalk]
PATAKI: ...replace coal plants — government's roles — is to incentivize innovation and the entrepreneurial spirit in America. We could have far more clean energy.
PATAKI: We could have next-generation nuclear, thorium reactors that have no risk of meltdown. We could have solar panels on every home that are four times more efficient than today.
PATAKI: R&D — R&D credits. Let the private sector do this, develop this innovation. And not only would we solve our problems, we would have clean energy, cheaper energy here.
PATAKI: We could export those technologies to places like China and like India so we would grow our economy, have a far greater impact globally, have a secure domestic source of energy, and cleaner, healthier air.
PATAKI: That's the solution. Embrace science, embrace innovation and change.
SANTORUM: Thank you. Can I just say something about that?
SANTORUM: Well, if you look at our plan that I introduced, the 2020 Clear Vision for America, we increase growth by 10 percent, 1 percent a year. So we go from 2.3 to 3.3, in repealing Obamacare, it's another .7. So you're looking at 4 percent growth, according to the Tax Foundation.
SANTORUM: And unlike Donald Trump and Bobby Jindal, we don't add $10 trillion to the deficit. In fact, our plan, while it creates as many jobs as their plan does and grows the economy as much as theirs does, we are a revenue-neutral plan because I believe that we need to reduce the size of government, yes, but we also need to reduce our deficit, and we need to get our budget balanced so we can start paying down this debt. And adding a trillion dollars with a tax cut and getting no more growth is not the way to do it.
SANTORUM: But that's only half of it. The word "economy" comes from the Greek "euthokis" (ph) which means family. The family is the first economy. And the one thing that we do not talk about enough is how stable families are vitally important for the middle of America to be prosperous and to grow and be safe. And I will have policies, not just tax policies, but others that will make sure that families are strong again in America.
JINDAL: Well, thank you.
JINDAL: Look, if Senator Santorum wants to concede the tax cut wing of the Republican Party, I'm happy to fight for that side of the Republican Party. He's exactly right. I explicitly want to shrink the size of government; 22 percent over 10 years is not too much. We cut our state budget 26 percent in eight years.
JINDAL: This is a fundamental choice. We mustn't become a cheaper version of the Democratic Party, a second liberal party. We need to proudly say we're willing to cut taxes, shrink government, grow the American economy. President Kennedy said it to the Democratic Party. Why can't we say it in the Republican Party in 2015, let's cut taxes.
JINDAL: John, our budget is balanced. We balanced our budget every year for eight years. Yeah, we've had to cut spending. You know what? We privatized or closed nine of our 10 charity hospitals. We did statewide school choice; $1.6 billion (ph) budget cut.
JINDAL: You're quoting an old number from the beginning of the year. We closed that gap. What they talk about, just like D.C., government's the only place where you give them less money than they wanted, they count it as a cut. They take last year's budget. They add inflation. They call it a baseline. We need to do zero-based budgets. We need to say just because you got money last year, you don't have it this year.
JINDAL: Let me close, though. We balanced our budget. We didn't raise taxes. In eight years, we never raised taxes. We cut taxes. Our — our taxpayers, our families have been better off for it.
JINDAL: [crosstalk]
GRAHAM: Well, number one, Social Security is not just a concept to me. I know why it exists; 50 percent of today's seniors would be in poverty without a Social Security check. I promise you, if you make me your president, I will save Social Security because I know why it exists.
GRAHAM: Now, if you're looking for good beer policy, I'm your best bet. My dad owned a bar. [laughter]
GRAHAM: I know beer. We grew up, my sister and myself, in the back of that bar in one room with my mom, my dad and my sister who's nine years younger. When I was 21, my mom was diagnosed with Hodgkin's disease. Neither parent finished high school. She died within a year. We were wiped out from the medical bills. And if it wasn't for a Social Security survivor benefit check coming into my family, we wouldn't' have made it because my dad died 15 months later.
GRAHAM: So I...
GRAHAM: Wait a minute, please. I'm 22 and we're wiped out. I am 60. I'm not married. I have a military retirement. I'm in good shape. I would give up some of my benefits to help those who need it more than I do.
GRAHAM: To young people here, I will ask you to work a little bit longer because we have to. The purpose of my presidency is to save this country and to save Social Security by working across the aisle just like Ronald Reagan. This is the biggest issue facing this nation.
JINDAL: [inaudible] absolutely they should be accountable. They should be accountable to their students through the market. Look, you either trust the American people to make their own choices or you don't.
JINDAL: I know the Left thinks we need to be protected from ourselves. President Obama is trying to limit competition to the higher education market. As a result, you're going to see tuition prices continue to go up. We've had $1 trillion of student debt and counting. And he wants to exempt certain schools from the same oversight he wants to apply only to the for-profit market.
JINDAL: For some reason, the private sector is a bad word to this president. It's not in the real world.
JINDAL: In Louisiana, we fought so that the dollars follow the child and so the child following the dollar. What that means, from K-12, what that means is that parents and their families can decide what's the best way for their children to be educated. Higher education, we have a TOPS program, where, again, we will help if a student maintains a 20 ACT, 2.5 GPA, we'll pay for their tuition. They can take those dollars for private school of their choice in the state as well.
JINDAL: You either trust the American people or you don't. I know the Left doesn't. That's why you get ObamaCare. They want to tell us what kind of insurance to buy. That's why you get Common Core, they want to take away our gun rights under the Second Amendment. They want to take away our religious liberty rights.
JINDAL: So, yes, there's accountability. There's accountability to students through choice and competition. We don't need the nanny state to protect us from ourselves.
JINDAL: I was just saying to my colleagues, I may be the last person in this audience without an iPhone. I'm actually one of the last folks — I still have a BlackBerry in my pocket. And I basically use it for scheduling. I use it to keep up when my wife is here and my three kids at home.
JINDAL: The only games on that phone are Bricklayer. I use it to keep up with the news through the Internet. I may be the last American out there without an iPhone.
JINDAL: My apologies.
SANTORUM: MLB, NHL, so I'm a big sports fan. And "The Wall Street Journal." Those are the three apps I use the most.
PATAKI: The one I use the most is Uber. You know, I used to get driven...[laughter]...when I was governor, I had a driver. I don't anymore, but...[crosstalk]. And it's an example of what millennials are doing to change America for the better. And I tweet a lot, too.
PATAKI: So Uber, Tweet — Twitter and then I communicate with my family.
GRAHAM: Well, number one, the only reason I have an iPhone is because I gave my number to Donald Trump. Don't do that. [laughter]
GRAHAM: Donald has done more to upgrade my technology than my whole staff.
GRAHAM: Number one, Fox News. Sorry about CNBC. [laughter]
GRAHAM: We're in a Republican primary here.
JINDAL: Well, absolutely, when the Saints go back to repeat, we were talking about beer sales earlier, all those folks from being hung over in Louisiana from drinking to celebrate Drew Brees winning this, I think it would be a great day to take off.
JINDAL: No, look, on a serious note, I do want to say this about the Super Bowl and our athletes. They can be great role models for our children and I'm obviously a Saints fan. Drew Brees and his wife great role models, great Christians.
JINDAL: So, yes, it should be a holiday.
SANTORUM: Well, since we're usually in the Super Bowl at the Pittsburgh Steelers...
SANTORUM: Steeler nation, anybody?
SANTORUM: No. I was in...[crosstalk]...was in Kansas City over the weekend to watch the Steeler game and about a third of the crowd were Steeler fans. So I'm usually not alone when I call on Steeler Nation.
SANTORUM: But we are used to being in the Super Bowl, so actually, it is in Pennsylvania already.
PATAKI: I — I am a long suffering Jets fan. So my answer is obviously no, there's no reason to take off the day after the Super Bowl. [applause]
PATAKI: But let me just add this. The Mets are going to win tonight. Let's go, Mets.
GRAHAM: Well, I think a national holiday would be the day that commander-in-chief Barack Obama doesn't have that job. [applause]
GRAHAM: But unlike these other three, I want to win New Hampshire. Go Tom Brady. Go Patriots. [laughter]
GRAHAM: Sorry, Colorado is late in the...
GRAHAM: Somebody said — or maybe I saw it on the bill of a cap — that let's make America great again. [laughter]
GRAHAM: America is great. [applause]
GRAHAM: I intend to make America strong again. I'm going to be the champion of the middle class, where I came from. If you make me your president, our best days are ahead. I'm ready to be commander- in-chief, ladies and gentlemen, on day one. I intend to war — win a war that we cannot afford to lose.
GRAHAM: I will be a commander-in-chief worthy of the sacrifice of those brave Americans who have been defending our nation. They have had our back. God knows, they have had our back...
GRAHAM: — and I intend to have their back as commander-in- chief. Make me commander-in-chief.
PATAKI: Thank you for the opportunity to be with this great audience tonight.
PATAKI: I'm a limited government conservative and I mean by that that not just when it comes to economic issues leaving them to the state, but social issues, as well.
PATAKI: And in that I differ from every single other candidate seeking the Republican nomination.
PATAKI: I take the Tenth Amendment very, very seriously.
PATAKI: I'm a Republican who embraces science and understands we have to work with the next generation of millennials to have the innovation and technology so that we can grow a 21st century economy.
PATAKI: And I'm a Republican who understands in Washington, when you're a leader, you have to put aside partisan politics to do what's right for the people.
PATAKI: We are one America. If we work together across party lines, there's no problem we can't solve and the 21st century will be America's greatest century.
PATAKI: Thank you very much.
SANTORUM: I grew up in a steel town of Western Pennsylvania, outside of Pittsburgh, and when I announced for president, I announced from the factory floor. When I talk about making America the number one manufacturer again in the world, it's not just talk. When I talk about having the opportunity for people to rise again, it's not just because it polls well.
SANTORUM: I represented the old steel valley of Pittsburgh. I represented a 70% Democratic district, and won with 60% of the vote. Why? Because I aligned myself with working men and women who feel that neither party, and certainly not Washington D.C. cares about them.
SANTORUM: You elect me, we will get American workers on the side of the Republican party, and we can not be stopped if we do. [applause]
JINDAL: My message is to conservatives, this is our hour. Thanks to the insanity, the incompetence of the Democratic party, the American people are ready to turn our government over to us. It's not enough to let just any Republican, however. The reality is the idea of America is slipping away.
JINDAL: As Christians, we believe that the tomb is empty. As Americans, we believe that our best days are always ahead of us, and they can be again. We must win this election. We cannot allow Hillary Clinton to take us down this path towards socialism — further down this path.
JINDAL: I've got the courage to apply our conservative principles. I can't do it alone. With your help, with God's grace, we can save the idea of America before it's too late.
